Woolwich was a borough constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom from 1885 to 1918 and from 1983 to 1997. It centred on Woolwich, now in the Royal Borough of Greenwich in south-east London.
Will Crooks, Member of Parliament for Woolwich 1903–10 and 1910–18, was one of the first Labour MPs in the United Kingdom.


== History ==
In 1918, the seat was split into Woolwich East and Woolwich West. In 1983, most of Woolwich West became Eltham while the recreated Woolwich constituency was largely based on Woolwich East. In 1997, the seat was split up along different lines, with part of it going into neighbouring Erith and Thamesmead, and part of it merging with the Greenwich seat to form the new Greenwich and Woolwich seat.


== Boundaries ==

1885–1918: The parishes of Woolwich, Eltham and Plumstead.

1983–1997: The London Borough of Greenwich wards of Abbey Wood, Arsenal, Burrage, Eynsham, Glyndon, Lakedale, Plumstead Common, St Mary's, St Nicholas, Shrewsbury, Slade, Thamesmead Moorings, and Woolwich Common.


== Members of Parliament ==


=== MPs 1885–1918 ===


=== MPs 1983–1997 ===


== Elections ==


=== Elections in the 1990s ===


=== Elections in the 1980s ===


=== Elections in the 1910s ===


=== Elections in the 1900s ===


=== Elections in the 1890s ===


=== Elections in the 1880s ===


== References ==


== Sources ==
Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs – Constituencies beginning with "W" (part 5)

The sharawadji effect is a musical perception or phenomenon regarding timbre and texture described by Claude Shryer as "a sensation of plenitude sometimes created by the contemplation of a complex soundscape whose beauty is inexplicable." Sharawadji is not a stimulus, but rather a reaction to a stimulus. Shryer described searching for this "state of awareness" by "tend[ing] an open ear in the hopes of experiencing the sublime beauty of a given sound in an unexpected context." The experience of the sharawadji sonic effect is often heavily dictated by personal context as well as the perception of the listener. One example of this effect is the appreciation of the sound of rumbling thunder: those who are directly exposed to the elements would be more likely to fear it compared to those who experience the sound while in a safe environment. Simply understood, "sharawadji sounds belong to everyday life, to a known musical style. They become sharawadji only through decontextualization, through a rupture of meaning."


== Origin ==
Seventeenth-century European travelers originally coined the term as an aesthetic effect that "comes about as a surprise and will carry you elsewhere, beyond strict representation — out of context." The term sharawadji was said to originate from China and was understood as "the beauty that occurs with no discernible order or arrangement."
"All of us are searching for that enveloping soundscape that takes us beyond to indescribable realms of beauty, what the Persian philosophers once called the sharawadji effect."


== See also ==
Auditory illusion
Musique concrète


== References ==

[

The American Graduate School in Paris (or AGS) is an American institution of higher education located in Paris, France and specializes in International Relations and related disciplines. It is a not-for-profit organization. It is recognized in France by the Ministry of Higher Education as a private institution of higher education ("Etablissement Privé d'Enseignement Supérieur") and offers programs that are accredited in the United States.
The campus is located in Paris, in the Reid Hall center, on the left bank of the Seine River, between the artist district of Montparnasse and the student area of the Latin Quarter.


== Programs ==
Programs include:

Master of Arts of International Relations and Diplomacy, accredited in the US through Arcadia University, Glenside, Pennsylvania (two-year program)
Ph.D. in International Relations and Diplomacy, accredited in the US through Arcadia University, Glenside, Pennsylvania
Certificate programs in NGO Management, European politics, African politics, Middle-Eastern politics and Asian politics
Various double degree programs


== History ==
The American Graduate School in Paris was established in 1994 under the name American Graduate School of International Relations and Diplomacy. In 2009, it changed its name to American Graduate School in Paris.


== Accreditations ==
All programs are accredited by the Commission on Higher Education of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools, per an official partnership with Arcadia University in Glenside, Pennsylvania, USA.


== The faculty ==
Faculty come from numerous countries, including the United States, France, Switzerland, India, Iran, Israel, Germany, Italy, and Great Britain. Faculty is composed of both academics and professionals (diplomats, lawyers, journalists, economists, business consultants).
Members of the faculty include Michael Einik, Ruchi Anand, and Douglas Yates.


== Student body and alumni ==
Around 50 nationalities are represented in the student body and alumni. 
Alumni of the International Relations and Diplomacy programs work in international intergovernmental organizations (UNESCO, UNEP, OECD), non-governmental organizations, government (policy-making, policy analysis, diplomacy), international business, media, and academia.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

KATSU is a graffiti artist who is active in New York City. He works with technology and public intervention to comment on commercialism, privacy and digital culture. As a result, his work includes traditional graffiti, digital media, and conceptual artwork.


== Works ==


=== AI portraiture ===
Exhibited as part of a 2017 solo show titled AI Criminals, KATSU's portraiture series consists of a generative adversarial network built using Google's TensorFlow machine learning library and trained using vintage black and white mug shots scraped from the web, to output unique portraits. The pieces explore themes of inherent bias in algorithms, Wired magazine notes that "there's more to AI portraits in KATSU's view, than just a comment on the growing power of technology—it's a warning about humanity's lack of control over what these tools can build".


=== Drone painting ===

After experimentation with quadcopter drones and in collaboration with FAT Lab member, Becky Stern, KATSU developed a prototype mountable remote sprayer- the resultant device was dubbed the Graffiti Drone. A press release from The Hole Gallery the described the process of its refinement as testing with "weight of the paint, the straw for the sprayer, the sensor for the can activation, the flight of the drone and different paint and surfaces".
Commenting on the significance of the work the artist explains that "drones are becoming this extension of human beings in the same way that we're growing so close to our smartphones and devices...It's really exciting to see and understand and think about what it means that many of the aesthetic decisions in these paintings are not my decisions. They're these collaborative decisions with this technology".
On April 30, 2015, it was reported that KATSU had used his Graffiti Drone to vandalize a Soho billboard approximately six stories tall. A video of the Calvin Klein advertisement featuring model Kendall Jenner being defaced went viral on YouTube. Citing the quadcopter as "Graffiti Drone 1.0" the act was described as proof of concept demonstrating the potential that drones have to transform graffiti.


=== Dronescapes ===
Dronescapes are a series of abstract paintings created using the graffiti drone described as "robot-controlled versions of Impressionist paintings".


=== Android selfies ===
Android Selfies are a triptych of monochrome oil paintings of a Series 800 Terminator Android taking selfies at Mount Rushmore, the Pyramids of Giza and the Moon.


=== Icarus One ===
Wired magazine reported KATSU's plans to make the design for his graffiti drone open source, "so other artists can experiment with its possibilities". The plans for the Graffiti Drone, subsequently named ICARUS ONE were released on an independent website licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution.


=== Shitheads ===
Shitheads is triptych of portraits of Mark Zuckerberg, Eric Schmidt, and a Springer Spaniel dog created using the artist's feces as pigment. Vice magazine placed the piece in a lineage of artists using human waste in their work, calling Shitheads "the Digital Era's Piss Christ".


=== Digital graffiti ===
Through his digital projects "KATSU easily dupes audiences while questioning the nuances that separate reality and fiction—he also looks at the notion that graffiti doesn't have to be a physical product, instead it can exist purely digitally".
In 2010 two doctored videos of the artist surfaced on YouTube- the first showing KATSU tagging in front of the White House and the second, of him tagging Picasso's "Girl Before a Mirror" at the MoMA. Both brought widespread speculation about their authenticity and validity. In a later interview KATSU spoke of the videos saying the digital pieces "themselves are tags just in the form of video, and found on the internet" and were intended to "get graffiti writers to rethink the method[s] one could use in getting notoriety".
Blending graffiti and digital technology, his film The Powers of KATSU, the title referencing Charles and Ray Eames classic film Powers of Ten, in which he reproduces his skull tag from the scale of 1/20 of an inch, a grain of rice, to 120 feet, a New York rooftop – and an image visible from Google Earth. The video was later shortlisted for the Guggenheim Museum's YouTube Play Show.


=== Fat Tag iPhone application ===
KATSU has previously collaborated with Graffiti Research Lab, a collective of technologists, artists and hackers. He is currently a research fellow at the Free Art and Technology Lab where, along with artist and programmer Theo Watson, he developed the iPhone app Fat Tag Graffiti Deluxe-KATSU Edition.


=== Phone Booth and Fly Posting campaigns ===
In April 2011 KATSU took over approximately 100 phone booths around New York City, replacing the advertisements with his own posters featuring celebrities and the logos of prominent corporations and institutions such as the MoMA and Apple.
As part of a Free Art and Technology Lab exhibition at Eyebeam, in 2013 the artist executed a fly posting campaign in New York City featuring an image of Mark Zuckerberg, photoshopped with a black eye, around New York City. Later commenting on it, KATSU responded "We're at the fork in the road with the web. It is being understood as a fundamental part of our evolution as a species. There are some that are fighting to protect privacy, anonymity and freedom and those who are trying to control, monitor and make profits. I want to let people know my beliefs."


=== MOCA Tag controversy and fire extinguisher graffiti ===

In April 2011, days before the opening of the show "Art in the Street" curated by Jeffrey Deitch, KATSU executed an extinguisher tag on the facade of The Geffen Contemporary at MOCA. The show was already under media scrutiny for being a "thoroughly sanitized history of graffiti and street art" as a result the event received wide media attention with the original YouTube video of the piece going viral. KATSU has since said that the tag was an "attempt to test Jeffrey Deitch's motives". The piece was placed on a wall initially intended for Os Gêmeos but was later painted over, despite reported efforts by artists Neckface, Barry McGee and Shepard Fairey to leave it be for the duration of the event, to make room for a tribute to graffiti artist Blade. Katsu continued to experiment with the medium and in January 2013 several buildings around Detroit, MI were reported to have been vandalized with large scribbles that appeared to be made with paint and enamel filled fire extinguishers. These were attributed to him after three large "KATSU" tags carried out with similar customized fire extinguishers appeared in the area shortly after.

KATSU also executed a fire extinguisher piece on the facade of Eyebeam Art and Technology Center as part of the F.A.T. GOLD retrospective.
Working in collaboration with photographer Ari Marcopoulos KATSU took over a vacant lot in Williamsburg, Brooklyn creating a mixed media extinguisher piece. Produced by Art publisher Dashwood, Marcopoulos and KATSU released a book documenting the piece, 6–23 '13 – N6 Street – Brooklyn, in 2014.


== Participatory art ==
KATSU encourages the public to become participants and not just observers, by using his works as canvas for their own graffiti efforts.


== References ==

The Office of Electricity (OE) is a program office within the United States Department of Energy. The mission of OE is to work "closely with [...] private and public partners" and "lead the Department’s efforts to ensure that the Nation’s most critical energy infrastructure is secure and resilient." It does this through research and development of new technologies and overseeing the Federal and state electricity policies and programs for planning and market operations.


== Responsibilities ==
Per the Delegation Order S1-DEL-S4-2023 the Office is responsible for:

study of codes and standards for the use of energy storage systems across sectors per section 40111 of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act;
under the Energy Independence and Security Act execution of activities to carry out research, development, and demonstration of:
electric grid modeling, sensing, visualization, architecture development, and advanced operation and controls, including commercial application;
development of cost-effective integrated energy systems, including a strategic plan;
in coordination with the Grid Deployment Office:
electric vehicle integration into the electric grid;
smart grid technology;
solicitation of advice from an existing advisory committee on the authorization of research, development, and demonstration projects;
under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 execution of activities to:
carry out an Advanced Power System Technology Incentive Program to support the deployment of advanced power system technologies and improve and protect certain critical governmental, industrial, and commercial processes;
in coordination with the Grid Deployment Office  carry out research, development, and demonstration of grid integration;
conduct a study and submit an annual report on the benefits of economic dispatch;
carry out programs of research, development, demonstration, and commercial application on distributed energy resources and systems reliability and efficiency;
under the Energy Act of 2020:
carry out a grant program for eligible projects related to the modernization of the electric grid;
develop voluntary model pathways for modernizing the electric grid, establish a steering committee to help develop those pathways, and provide technical assistance.
submit a report on performance metrics for electricity infrastructure providers;
provide assistance to States, regional organizations, and electric utilities for the development electricity distribution plans;
carry out a micro-grid and integrated micro-grid systems program in coordination with the Grid Deployment Office.
submit a report on electricity access and reliability.
enter and perform contracts with public agencies and private organizations and persons as delegated to the Assistant Secretary for Electricity;
collect, assemble, evaluate, and analyze energy information;
participate in proceedings before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or any Federal or State agency or commission related to authority delegated to the Under Secretary for Science (and Innovation).


=== Historical ===
The Office used to be responsible for leading efforts to modernize the electric grid. When the Grid Deployment Office (GDO) was established in 2022, these responsibilities were transferred there. The Office of Electricity also worked with the Department of Homeland Security and other agencies to enhance the security of the nation's critical energy infrastructure, this task was transferred to the Office of Cybersecurity, Energy Security, and Emergency Response (CESER) when the latter was established in 2018.


== Organization ==

The Office is under the general supervision of the Under Secretary of Energy for Science and Innovation. The Office is administered by the Assistant Secretary for Electricity (ASE), who is appointed by the President of the United States. 
The Assistant Secretary for Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability is appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate. The Assistant Secretary is paid at level IV of the Executive Schedule. The Assistant Secretary is assisted in running the Office by Deputy Assistant Secretaries, who can be career employees or political appointees. Each of the Deputy Assistant Secretaries oversee a different branch of the Office's work.
Effective October 21, 2022, the Office of Electricity has the following reporting relationships:

Assistant Secretary
Chief of Staff
Chief Operating Officer, Corporate Business Operations
Director, Budget
Director, Communications
Director, Procurement, Strategic Planning and Operations
Director, Workforce Development
Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Grid Systems and Components
Director, Grid Systems
Director, Grid Components
Director, Applied Grid Transformation
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Grid Controls and Communications
Director, Grid Monitoring
Director, Grid Controls
Director, Grid Cybersecurity and Communications
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Energy Storage
Director, Storage Analysis
Director, Storage Validation
Director, Storage Materials and Systems


== References ==


== Sources ==
Sissine, Fred (February 9, 2016). "DOE's Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability (OE): A Primer, with Appropriations for FY2016". unt.edu. Congressional Research Service. Retrieved 7 November 2022.
DOE (April 10, 2023). "S1-DEL-S4-2023-2, Delegation of Authority to the Under Secretary for Science (and Innovation)". doe.gov. Department of Energy. Retrieved 14 July 2023.


== External links ==
Official website

 This article incorporates public domain material from websites or documents of the United States Department of Energy.

Chester Holcombe (1842 in Winfield, New York – 1912) was an American missionary to China, diplomat, and author.
Holcombe graduated from Union College, where he was selected to Phi Beta Kappa.  Ordained as a Presbyterian minister, he performed missionary work in China. In 1884, S. Wells Williams, the distinguished missionary who had become secretary to the American legation in Beijing, asked Holcombe to be his replacement.  As a diplomat, he filled various posts in US diplomatic service in China, helping in the negotiations of two treaties between the United States and China. He was the author of The Real Chinaman (1895) and The Real Chinese Question (1900), which attempted to expose myths concerning China, Chinese culture, and the issue of Chinese immigration to the United States. In September, 1906, he published "The Missionary Enterprise," in The Atlantic Monthly, a defense from the accusations following the Boxer Uprising.


== Notes ==


== Bibliography ==
The Real Chinaman Dodd, Mead & Company, New York, 1895.
The Real Chinese Question Dodd, Mead & Company, New York, 1900
China's Past & Future Morgan and Scott, London, 1904.


== External links ==
 Media related to Chester Holcombe at Wikimedia Commons
Elibron.com listing for "The Real Chinese Question"

The eighth Central American and Caribbean Games were held in Caracas, Venezuela, and it was the first time this nation had held the Games. The Games were held from 6 January to 15 January 1959 and included 1,150 athletes from twelve nations, competing in seventeen sports.


== Sports ==


== Medal table ==

  *   Host nation (Venezuela)


== References ==

(in Spanish) Meta
(in Spanish) Official Results

The 1960 Iowa Hawkeyes football team was an American football team that represented the University of Iowa as a member of the Big Ten Conference during the 1960 Big Ten football season. In their ninth and final season under head coach Forest Evashevski, the Hawkeyes compiled an 8–1 record (5–1 in conference games), tied with Minnesota. for the Big Ten championship, and outscored opponents by a total of 234 to 108. They opened the season with six consecutive wins over ranked opponents, as eight of Iowa's nine opponents were ranked, and the ninth was Notre Dame. The only loss was to eventual national champion Minnesota The Big Ten voted to send Minnesota to the Rose Bowl over Iowa.
The Hawkeyes were ranked No. 2 in the final UPI poll and No. 3 in the final AP poll, 
but were ranked No. 1 in the season's final Litkenhous Ratings and were awarded the Litkenhous national championship trophy. They have also been declared the national champion by the Boand System, Berryman QPRS, Sagarin Ratings, and Billingsley Report.
The 1960 Hawkeyes gained 2,284 rushing yards and 511 passing yards. On defense, they gave up 1,492 rushing yards and 573 passing yards. The team featured the strongest rushing attack in Iowa history with an average of 252.8 rushing yards per game. They also had the fifth best scoring defense in modern Iowa history, allowing an average of 12.0 points per game.
The team's statistical leaders included halfback Larry Ferguson (665 rushing yards), quarterback Wilburn Hollis (22-of-62 passing for 289 yards, 68 points scored), and Felton Rogers (8 receptions for 96 yards). Ferguson and guard Mark Manders were selected by the Football Writers Association of America as first-team All-Americans. Ferguson, Manders and Hollis received first-team honors on the 1960 All-Big Ten Conference football team. Halfback Jerry Mauren was the team captain. Halfback Bernie Wyatt was selected as the team's most valuable player. 
The team played its home games at Iowa Stadium in Iowa City, Iowa. Home attendance totaled 264,100 an average of 52,820 per game.   


== Schedule ==


== Personnel ==


=== Players ===
The following players received varsity letters for their performance on the 1960 Iowa football team:


=== Coaches and administrators ===
Head coach - Forest Evashevski
Assistant coaches = Lou Holtz


== Rankings ==


== Game summaries ==


=== No. 16 Purdue ===


=== at No. 3 Minnesota ===


=== No. 3 Ohio State ===


== 1961 NFL draft ==


== References ==

Kutzsche or Kutsche (pronounced [ˈkʊtʃə]) is a surname of Upper Sorbian origin, a Germanized rendering of the Sorbian diminutive/nickname Kućo (pronounced [ˈkutɕɔ]; "the man from the house"), from the Slavic word kuča ("house"), that is found across Slavic languages. Its form is typical of Upper Sorbian family names adapted into German spelling conventions: the palatal ć was written as tsch or tzsch, and the Slavic diminutive ending -o was replaced with German -e, resulting in the ending -sche which is typical of Germanized Slavic surnames. The surname is historically concentrated in Upper Lusatia and adjacent parts of Saxony, Bohemia, and Silesia, areas with strong Sorbian-speaking traditions. The root word is widespread across the Slavic languages; from it developed diminutive or nickname forms such as Sorbian Kućo, with close cognates in South Slavic (Koćo). The root is derived from Proto-Slavic *kъtja (house).


== West Slavic origin as Kućo ==

The surname is characteristically of Sorbian and specifically of Upper Sorbian origin. It derives from the Slavic root kuča ("house", "dwelling"), from which the diminutive or nickname Kućo was formed with the typical Slavic masculine ending -o. Like many surnames that likely emerged in the Late Middle Ages, it began as a spoken nickname referring to a man identified with a particular household or as the head of a specific, locally recognized house. It carried no implication of a marginal or insignificant dwelling; rather, such a nickname would have signaled local recognition of the house and its occupant as an established, stable household within the village community. With the rise of parish registers in the 16th century, such oral names were written down and gradually stabilized as hereditary surnames.

The surname is clustered and likely developed in Upper Lusatia, the Sorbian core area around Bautzen, Kamenz, and Ortrand. Originally settled by the West Slavic Milceni, the region came under the Kingdom of Bohemia in 1319 and remained there until 1635, when it was ceded to the Electorate of Saxony. Sorbian was the majority language in the countryside until the 18th century, while German dominated in towns and administration. Although linguistically very close to Czech, Upper Sorbian was geographically cut off from the Czech-speaking lands and Sorbian survived as a smaller Slavic "island" in a largely German-speaking environment. This isolation helped preserve it as a distinct language instead of being absorbed into the Czech dialect continuum and standard language, but also made it vulnerable to gradual Germanization. By the 19th century, German had become culturally and administratively dominant, yet Sorbian speech and nicknames like Kućo persisted in the countryside, shaping the Germanized spellings Kutsche/Kutzsche found in parish records.
From the 17th century onward, as Sorbian names were increasingly recorded in German orthography, Kućo was adapted to fit German spelling conventions. Clerks typically replaced the palatal ć with tsch or tzsch and altered the final -o to -e. The ending -sche is typical of Germanized Slavic surnames. In the early 19th century, flatter simplified spellings like Kutsche were common, though by the mid-19th century a more consistent habit developed of using -tzsch- to capture the palatal quality of Sorbian ć/č more precisely, an indication that the Sorbian spoken form was still actively heard at the time, even as names were Germanized. The -tzsch- cluster is unusual in Germany and strongly tied to Lusatia/Saxony. Such variation in spelling was typical of the period and should not be seen as "mistakes." Before the 19th century, names had no single fixed form; spelling simply mirrored how local clerks heard the spoken nickname. The spoken name was primary, and the different written versions—Kutsche, Kutzsche, etc.—are best understood as phases in how the same Sorbian original was rendered in German writing. Compared to a modern standard German pronunciation of Kut(z)sche, the Sorbian form Kućo ends in a strong full vowel [ɔ], while German Kut(z)sche ends in a reduced schwa [ə]. The Sorbian affricate [t͡ɕ] is softer and more palatal (similar to Polish ć), whereas the German [t͡ʃ] is harder, comparable to English ch.
Some older dictionaries broadly attribute the surname to "Polish," but in Lusatia the origin is clearly Sorbian. German name dictionaries are often less precise in their treatment of Slavic names and often attribute such surnames broadly to "Polish." Onomast Hans Bahlow wrote that the name Kutsche, when found in the historical East Central German linguistic area, is "clearly of Slavic origin."
The root kuča ("house", "dwelling") is found across the Slavic languages (Sorbian kuča, Polish kuczka, dialectal Czech kuča, Slovak kučka, Slovene koča, Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian kuća (kȕća), Bulgarian къ́ща (kǎ́šta), Macedonian ку́ќа (kúḱa)). From it developed diminutive or nickname forms such as Sorbian Kućo, with close cognates in South Slavic (Koćo). In Dalmatia Italianized forms such as Cucci, Cuco, Cuci may be encountered. The West and South Slavic languages kept the "house" meaning much more clearly, while in East Slavic the word drifted semantically but survived in surnames through place-names and older dialectal meanings. Within West and South Slavic, the degree of transparency varies: Serbo-Croatian still uses kuća as the everyday word for "house," with the diminutive Koćo directly paralleling Sorbian Kućo; in Czech the root survives only in archaic or dialectal form, while in Polish it shifted toward diminutives (kuczka). The root kuča is derived from Proto-Slavic *kъtja (house).
In modern Lusatia, the Germanized forms of Sorbian surnames are generally understood as products of historical administrative practice rather than accurate reflections of Sorbian phonology. Within contemporary Sorbian cultural and linguistic contexts, it is common to acknowledge or reference the underlying Sorbian forms of surnames in general, even when the officially registered German spelling remains unchanged. This belongs to a broader trend in Sorbian communities of recognizing and, in some settings, reviving original Sorbian orthography as part of cultural identity.


== Similar names with different etymologies ==
Outside the Sorbian settlement area, some rare cases of the surname may potentially derive from the German noun Kutsche ("coach"), itself borrowed in the 16th century from Hungarian kocsi ("from Kocs"). The borrowing is relatively late in German, after surnames had typically stabilized, and surnames derived from it are uncommon; when they occur, they are more likely to be found in larger urban centers or regions with direct ties to long-distance transport.


== Distribution ==
Today the surname is relatively uncommon across Germany as a whole, but it is disproportionately found in Saxony and Brandenburg, especially in the historical Sorbian-speaking districts around Bautzen and Kamenz. This regional concentration supports a primarily Sorbian etymology in those areas, with the Hungarian/occupational explanation applying only to isolated occurrences elsewhere.


== People ==
People with variants of the surname include:

Stefan Kutzsche (born 1954), Norwegian pediatrician
Werner Kutzsche (1911–2000), German engineer and Professor of information technology


== References ==

Westfield is an unincorporated community in Harris County, Texas, United States, located along Interstate 45 and the Union Pacific Railroad nineteen miles (31 km) north of Downtown Houston.


== History ==
In 1846 Herman Tautenhahn, a German immigrant, built a general store near Cypress Station. By 1876, Westfield was established; the community was named after Gadi F. West, a man who owned a field along the International–Great Northern Railroad. In 1873, a post office opened. Tautenhahn moved his store closer to the rail line. Westfield's economy consisted of loading goods such as cattle, cotton, hides, and lumber from local warehouses and cattle pens onto freight cars. The community shipped a tonnage of goods equalling that shipped by nearby Spring. By 1890 Westfield had 200 people, of whom most were Anglo-American and German-American. The community included several sorghum manufacturers, three churches, three combination gristmill and cotton gins, one steam sawmill, and one school. Some residents manufactured barrels, farm implements, and furniture. In 1905, Westfield became an overflow point for employees from the nearby Humble oil field. Between 1925 and 1930, the population increased from 50 to 450. During the Great Depression, the population decreased to 50. During World War II 200 residents and 10 businesses were in the community. The population decreased to 125 after the end of the war. By the 1950s, Farm to Market Road 1960 was constructed. In 1962 the store established by Tautenhahn, renamed Big T Shopping Center, moved to the intersection of F.M. 1960 and Interstate 45. The population stayed at the same level from the post-war years until the mid-1960s, when it increased to 275. From 1966 to 1990 the population remained at 275 and the area had a maximum of 32 businesses. The area post office closed in 1972. The state of Texas did not find population figures for the year 2000.


== Government and infrastructure ==
Westfield is within Harris County Precinct 4. Areas west of Interstate 45 are served by Harris County Sheriff's Office District I Patrol, headquartered from the Cypresswood Substation at 6831 Cypresswood Drive. Areas east of Interstate 45 are served by Harris County Sheriff's Office District II Patrol, headquartered from the Humble Substation at 7900 Will Clayton Parkway in Humble.
The Ponderosa Volunteer Fire Department serves areas considered to be in Westfield. One of its three stations, Station 61 at 17061 Rolling Creek Drive, serves as the VFD headquarters and serves the Westfield community. Efforts to form the Ponderosa Fire Department began in 1972. The department opened in 1976.
Westfield is located in District 150 of the Texas House of Representatives. As of 2008 Debbie Riddle represents the district. Westfield is within District 7 of the Texas Senate; as of 2008 Ted Poe represents the district.
Westfield is in Texas's 18th congressional district; as of 2026 Christian Menefee is the representative. Westfield's designated United States Postal Service post office is the Westfield Post Office at 17119 Red Oak Drive.


== Education ==
Areas considered to be in Westfield are served by the Spring Independent School District. Dekaney High School serves the areas considered to be "Westfield", "Greenspoint", and unincorporated Harris County.
Westfield had received its first school by 1890. In 1905 its school for White children had 137 students and one teacher, while its school for Black children had 33 and one teacher.


=== Community colleges ===
Lone Star College System serves the area.


=== Public libraries ===
The closest public library to the area is the Baldwin Boettcher Library of Harris County Public Library at Mercer Park. The 10,137-square-foot (941.8 m2) branch opened in 1986.


== References ==


== External links ==

Westfield, Texas from the Handbook of Texas Online

This is a list of destinations operated to by Virgin America, a former American airline that was headquartered in Burlingame, California. On April 4, 2016, Virgin America announced it had agreed to be acquired by Alaska Air Group, with the transaction closing by December 14, 2016. At the time, Virgin America had 24 destinations. Virgin America officially merged with Alaska Airlines in 2018.
The list includes destinations that Virgin America was serving or had formerly served by April 24, 2018, before the airline's merger with Alaska Airlines. At the time, Virgin America was serving 31 destinations, consisting of 28 domestic destinations and three destinations in Mexico.


== Destinations ==


== References ==

Events in the year 2010 in the Islamic Republic of Iran.


== Incumbents ==
Supreme Leader: Ali Khamenei
President: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
Vice President: Mohammad Reza Rahimi
Chief Justice: Sadeq Larijani


== Events ==
January 5 – Iran bans its citizens from contact with 60 international organisations and media outlets over claims they conspired against the country.
January 8 – Mehdi Karroubi's car is hit by fire in Qazvin, Iran.
January 12 – Masoud Alimohammadi, an Iranian nuclear physics professor, is killed in a bomb attack in the capital Tehran; Iran state media accuses Israel and the United States of involvement.
January 19 – Iran rejects a deal offered by the International Atomic Energy Agency to exchange low-enriched uranium for nuclear fuel.
January 23 – A passenger train in Iran derails, killing at least eight people and wounding at least fifteen others.
January 24 – Taban Air Flight 6437: A flight operated by Kolavia on behalf of Taban Air crashes on landing at Mashhad International Airport, Iran, injuring at least 46 people.
January 28 – Iran executes two opposition supporters for their role in the election protests in the country.
February 7 – Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad orders his country's atomic agency to begin enriching uranium to a higher level.
February 11 – President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announces that Iran is now a nuclear state, following a successful 20% uranium enrichment.
March 19 – Former Iranian Vice-President Hossein Marashi is jailed after being accused of spreading propaganda.
March 31 – Shahram Amiri, a scientist involved in Iran's nuclear program, defects to the United States and begins talking to the Central Intelligence Agency.
April 5 – Iran invites 60 countries to a two-day nuclear disarmament conference in Tehran on April 17–18, entitled "Nuclear energy for everyone, nuclear arms for no one". China says it will attend the conference which invites "the world to disarm and prevent proliferation".
April 20 – Speaking in Tehran, Iranian Islamic cleric Hojatoleslam Kazem Sedighi blames promiscuous women for causing earthquakes.
April 30 – Iran threatens to "cut off Israel's feet" if Israel attacks Syria.
May 24 – Iran's largest water supply project is inaugurated in Khorramshahr.
June 18 – The Atomic Energy Organization of Iran (AEOI) starts designing a newer and a more powerful nuclear research reactor than the current Tehran reactor, according to AEOI director Ali Akbar Salehi.
July 9 – Iran announces that women convicted of adultery will no longer face stoning to death after international concern. They may, however, still face the death penalty.
July 15 – July 2010 Zahedan bombings: More than 20 people are killed and 100 injured in a suicide attack at a mosque in southeastern Iran.
July 23 – President of Iran Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announces plans to launch a crewed shuttle into space by 2019.
July 31 – Mohammad Nouri, 80, Iranian singer, blood disorder.
August 12 – Mohammad Ali Taraghijah, 67, Iranian painter.
August 21 – Russian engineers start loading fuel into Iran's first nuclear reactor at Bushehr Nuclear Power Plant.
August 27 – The 5.8 Mw Damghan earthquake shook northern Iran with a maximum Mercalli intensity of VII (Very strong). Four people were killed, 40 were injured, and 800 were made homeless.
September 10 – Up to 10 people are killed and 50 are injured in an oil pipeline blast in northeastern Iran.
September 15 – 2009–2010 detention of American hikers by Iran: Iran releases United States hiker Sarah Shourd from Evin Prison following payment of bail.
September 22 – At least a dozen Iranians are killed and 81 are wounded in a bomb attack on a military parade in the Kurdish town of Mahabad according to reports from Iranian Arabic language television Al-Alam.
September 28 – Iranian-Canadian blogger Hossein Derakhshan, the founder of one of the first Persian-language blogs, is sentenced to 19 years imprisonment in an Iranian court for "anti-state activity".
October 13 – Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad visits Lebanon amidst concern from Israel and United States.
October 26 – Iran starts loading fuel into the Bushehr Nuclear Power Plant, its first nuclear power plant.
November 21 – Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad rejects the country's once effective family planning program as an "ungodly Western import" and urges girls to marry at age of 16.
November 29 – Iranian nuclear scientist Majid Shahriari is killed and his wife injured, while another scientist is wounded during two attacks in Tehran. Iran says Western governments and Israel may have carried out the killing.


== Notable deaths ==

January 3 – Ali Safi Golpaygani, 96, Iranian Marja', natural causes.
January 12 – Massoud Ali-Mohammadi, 50, Iranian nuclear scientist, bomb blast.
January 15 – Bahman Jalali, 65, Iranian photographer, pancreatic cancer.
January 28 – Arash Rahmanipour, c.20, Iranian activist, hanging.
January 28 – Mohammad-Reza Ali-Zamani, c.38, Iranian activist, hanging.
March 6 – Mansour Amir-Asefi, 76, Iranian Olympic footballer, cancer.
April 19 – Hamideh Kheirabadi, 85, Iranian actress, stroke.
May 9 – Farzad Kamangar, 32, Iranian activist, execution by hanging.
May 24 – Abdolhamid Rigi, c.31, Iranian militant, execution by hanging.
June 20 – Abdolmalek Rigi, 27, Iranian Sunni Islamist militant, leader of Jundallah, execution by hanging.
October 13 – Marzieh, 86, Iranian singer, cancer.
November 29 – Majid Shahriari, Iranian nuclear scientist, car bomb.
December 1 – Shahla Jahed, 39, Iranian convicted murderer, hanged.


== References ==


== External links ==

Real Mambau Football Club, simply known as Real Mambau, is a Malaysian football club based in Mambau, Seremban, Negeri Sembilan. It plays in the fourth tier of the Malaysian football league system, the Malaysia A3 Community League.


== History ==
Real Mambau joined competitions organised by the Negeri Sembilan Football Association. In 2023 they finished in third place. This achievement marked a significant milestone for the club, reflecting its ambition to progress within the Malaysian football league system. 
In the 2024–25 Malaysia A2 Amateur League, Real Mambau FC faced significant challenges. The team suffered heavy defeats, including 16–0 to SJ Virtuosos F.C. on September 21, and 0–10 to BR United on August 17. These results contributed to their last-place finish in the South Zone.


== Technical staff (2024) ==

Team manager: Sahdan bin Shaherom
Head coach: Al-Hasrizal Al-Mustafi
Assistant coach: Anuar Sukiman
Physio: Nasrin Eman Mazlan
Team official: Ridhwan Aiman
Media officer: Faiq Rashid
Kitman: Daniel Razmi


== Players (2024) ==

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.


== Season by season record ==


== Honours ==


=== Domestic competitions ===


==== League ====
Division 5/A-Ligue Nismilan
 Third place (1): 2023


== References ==

Paralonectes is an extinct genus of thalattosaurian reptile which lived in the Early or Middle Triassic of what is today British Columbia.  The type and only species is P. merriami.  The genus name is derived from Ancient Greek and means "shore swimmer", and the species epithet is in honor of J. C. Merriam, a paleontologist who has done extensive work on Triassic marine reptiles.


== Discovery and description ==
Paralonectes was described in 1993 in the same publication that described the sympatric species Thalattosaurus borealis and Agkistrognathus campbelli.  All three taxa were discovered in the rocks of the Sulphur Mountain Formation.  All known specimens of Paralonectes were transported to and prepared at the Royal Tyrrell Museum of Paleontology.  The holotype includes a mostly complete skull with an associated mandible, several vertebrae, ribs, an ischium, and a few limb bones, and it was given the designation TMP 89.127.1.  Two referred specimens (TMP 89.127.2 and TMP 91.120.21) include several additional isolated skull elements.


== Classification ==
The classification of Thalattosauria has been controversial, and it is not known with confidence to which other reptiles they are closely related.  They have been suggested to be relatives of Sauropterygia, Archosauromorpha, or possibly being part of a more primitive lineage.  A cladogram summarizing the internal interrelationships of thalattosaurs is shown below.


== References ==

Codeberg e.V. is a German nonprofit organization specializing in open-source software development services.


== Services ==
Codeberg provides an online collaborative software development environment with Forgejo, static page hosting with Codeberg Pages, a collaborative translation web platform with Weblate and CI/CD with Woodpecker CI and Forgejo Actions.
Development of the Gitea-fork Forgejo also takes place on Codeberg.


== History ==
Codeberg e.V. was established in September 2018 with seven founding members and launched as Codeberg.org in January 2019. The organization selected the European Union for their headquarters and computer infrastructure, due to members' concerns that a software project repository hosted in the United States could be removed if a malicious actor made bad faith copyright claims under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. After one month, the Codeberg e.V. organization had 25 members, and Codeberg.org hosted 333 repositories with 379 users.
In 2022, the Software Freedom Conservancy started its "Give up GitHub"-campaign, which included Codeberg as one of the suggested alternatives. In December 2022, Codeberg launched Forgejo, a fork of Gitea, in response to a controversial change in direction of the Gitea Project, initially synchronising all changes which occurred on Gitea. In February 2024, the Forgejo project decided to cease synchronising with changes from Gitea, citing reduced maintenance overhead and stability reasons.
As of November 2025, Codeberg hosts over 300,000 repositories and has more than 200,000 registered user accounts and its members had also grown to 1208.
In recent years, multiple large open source projects have migrated from GitHub to Codeberg: At the end of November 2025, the Zig programming language announced moving to Codeberg as "GitHub no longer demonstrates commitment to engineering excellence." Around the same time, the founder of Dillo announced moving away from GitHub, including setting up a mirror on Codeberg, due to GitHub's "over-focusing on LLMs and generative AI". In February 2026, Gentoo announced its presence on Codeberg, citing GitHub’s attempts to force them to use Copilot as the motivation for the move.


== See also ==
Comparison of source-code-hosting facilities
GitLab


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website

Naraguchi Station (那良口駅, Naraguchi-eki) is a railway station on the Hisatsu Line in Kuma, Kumamoto, Japan, operated by Kyushu Railway Company (JR Kyushu).


== Lines ==
Naraguchi Station is served by the Hisatsu Line.


== Layout ==
The station has a single side platform serving one bi-directional track.


== Adjacent stations ==


== See also ==
List of railway stations in Japan


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website (in Japanese)

Last Flight (Chinese: 绝命航班) is a 2014 Chinese supernatural action thriller film based on a novel by Singaporean novelist and actress Megan Tay. starring Ed Westwick and Zhu Zhu. The film was directed by Vincent Zhou. The screenplay was written by Vincent Zhou and Peter Cameron.


== Plot ==
Disaster waits for those traveling aboard the last red-eye flight from a secluded Pacific island. The captain and chief flight attendant fight to save their passengers from an otherworldly storm of chaos and paranoia threatening their doomed aircraft.


== Cast ==
Ed Westwick
Zhu Zhu
Yin Zheng


== Reception ==
The film grossed US$5.9 million in China  and remained in the nation's Top Ten for three weeks.


== Sequel ==
A sequel, Lost in the Pacific, was released on January 29, 2016.


== References ==


== External links ==
Last Flight at IMDb

Alex Edwards (14 February 1946 – 11 December 2024) was a Scottish footballer who played as a winger for Dunfermline, Hibernian and Arbroath.
Jock Stein gave Edwards his league debut just five days after his 16th birthday in March 1962, which made him the second-youngest outfield player (after Andy Penman of Dundee) to play in a Scottish Football League match. He then featured as a 16-year-old in Dunfermline's famous 6–2 home victory against Valencia in 1962. He went on to play for Dunfermline in the Scottish Cup finals of 1965 and 1968, winning the latter.
Hibernian manager Eddie Turnbull signed Edwards for £13,000 in 1971. He combined well on the right side of the Hibs side with John Brownlie. He played in another Scottish Cup Final in 1972, before winning the Scottish League Cup in the following season. Hibs challenged for the league title that season as well, but fell away after Edwards was banned for eight weeks having been booked four times.
Edwards moved on to Arbroath in 1978, before retiring from professional football in 1980.
In October 2024, he was inducted into the Hibernian Hall of Fame. Edwards died aged 78 on 11 December 2024.


== References ==


== External links ==
Alex Edwards at Post War English & Scottish Football League A–Z Player's Transfer Database
Jeffrey, Jim (2005). The Men Who Made Hibernian F.C. since 1946. Tempus Publishing Ltd. ISBN 0-7524-3091-2.

Sagor & Swing is a Swedish instrumental duo that fused disparate musical genres such as jazz, electronic music, and Scandinavian folk music. The band consisted of Eric Malmberg (organ), and Ulf Möller (drums) Ulf Möller was replaced in 2007 by Fredrik Björling, who previously played in Dungen, The Amazing, etc. The band's sound was defined by Malmberg's distinctive organ playing.  A major source of inspiration was organist Bo Hansson (formerly of Hansson & Karlsson), who collaborated with the group in a number of performances.
The duo formed in 1999, and released four albums between 2001 and 2004. Malmberg released a solo album in 2005. The band stopped playing live for a few of years, but started touring again in 2013, when they also released a new album. Ulf Möller rejoined the band in 2014, replacing Fredrik Björling.
The waltz "Vals på vingar" from Orgelfärger was featured in the HBO TV series Eastbound & Down in 2013.


== Discography ==
Orgelfärger (Häpna H5 CD, 2001)
Melodier och fåglar (Häpna H8 CD, 2002)
Allt hänger samman (Häpna H12 CD, 2003)
Orgelplaneten (Häpna H16 CD, 2004)
Botvid Grenlunds park (Häpna H50 CD, 2013, also on iTunes)
Modular (EP, January 29, 2020, Qvästlafve)
En musikalisk tolkning av Bröderna Lejonhjärta (LP, August 26, 2020, Zeon Light)
Moog på svenska (digital, 2025, PLX Records)


== References ==

The Conservative Alliance (Matanitu Vanua in Fijian) was a right-wing political party in Fiji, and a member of the ruling coalition government. It was commonly known as the CAMV, a combination of the initials of its English and Fijian names.  At its annual general meeting on 17 February 2006, the party voted to dissolve itself and merge with its coalition partner, the Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua (SDL).  The President of the party at the time of its dissolution was Ratu Tanoa Cakobau, a Bauan chief, while Ratu Josefa Dimuri served as General Secretary.  For legal reasons, Parliamentary members of the disbanded party maintained a separate caucus in the House of Representatives, under the leadership of Ratu Naiqama Lalabalavu, until the end of the parliamentary term, on 27 March 2006.


== Party founding ==
The Conservative Alliance was publicly launched at Furnival Park in Toorak, Suva, on 15 June 2001 by defectors who broke away from the Soqosoqo ni Vakavulewa ni Taukei, which had governed the country from 1992 to 1999, when it lost the general elections held that year.  As part of its founding ideology, the party emphasized that the offices of President and Prime Minister should be reserved for indigenous Fijians, and that Christianity should be constitutionally established as the country's official religion.  Among those attending the launch was the Rev. Tomasi Kanailagi, President of the Methodist Church.  Ratu Epenisa Cakobau, a Kubuna chief, was appointed President of the party, with Ratu Naiqama Lalabalavu of Tovata and Ro Alivereti Tuisawau of Burebasaga as the two Vice-Presidents, thus representing at the apex of the party the leading chiefly clans from the three confederacies to which all Fijian chiefs belong.  Ratu Josefa Dimuri was appointed General Secretary of the party.


== The 2001 election ==
George Speight, who led the civilian coup d'état against the elected government of Mahendra Chaudhry in May 2000, joined the new party, as did many of his supporters.  In the parliamentary election held to restore democracy in August 2001, the party fielded candidates in 36 of the 71 electorates.  Six of their candidates were elected to the House of Representatives, including Speight.  (Unable to take his seat due to his imprisonment on treason charges, Speight was subsequently expelled from Parliament for nonattendance, and his brother, Samisoni Tikoinasau, won the ensuing byelection to fill the vacancy).
To secure a legislative majority, the Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua (SDL) of Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase forged a coalition agreement with the Conservative Alliance.  The party initially insisted on Speight's release from jail as the price of its participation in the government, but later dropped this demand.  The then leader of the party, Ratu Rakuita Vakalalabure, was appointed Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, and two members of the caucus were appointed to the Cabinet.  Ratu Naiqama Lalabalavu became Minister for Lands and Natural Resources, and Isireli Leweniqila became Minister for Youth, Employment Opportunities, and sport.  As part of a deal brokered between the military and the insurrectionists, Ratu Jope Seniloli, another party stalwart, had already been appointed Vice-President in September 2000, following the end of the rebellion.


=== Alleged FLP offer ===
At the annual general meeting held to dissolve the party on 17 February 2006, coup-convict Simione Drole claimed that the Fiji Labour Party had made an offer to the CAMV after the 2001 election.  All six CAMV parliamentarians, including coup frontsman George Speight, would be given Cabinet office; one of them would be offered the post of Prime Minister.  All prisoners held on coup-related offences would also be freed in return for CAMV support, Fiji Live quoted Drole as saying.  "This information was relayed to us on Nukulau by CAMV lawyer Kitione Vuataki," Drole told the meeting.  He went on to claim that the CAMV had made the very difficult decision to refuse the offer; the prospect of freedom was tempting, he said, but the priority was to ensure that an ethnic Fijian government held office.
FLP leader Mahendra Chaudhry rejected Drole's claims as "utter lies." "Drole should have his head examined," he said.


== Arrest of CAMV members ==
In 2004, a number of high-profile members of the Conservative Alliance were arrested and charged with treason for their roles in the 2000 coup.  On 6 August 2004, Vice-President Seniloli and Deputy Speaker Vakalalabure were convicted and sentenced to terms of four and six years' imprisonment respectively.  Youth, Employment, and Sports Minister Leweniqila was acquitted; Justice Nazhat Shameem accepted his defence that he had been coerced into taking an illegal oath of office during the coup.
Anxious to retain the support of his coalition partner, and shore up his electoral base in the Bau-Tailevu region, in which Seniloli is an influential chief, Prime Minister Qarase said that he was "dismayed by the severity of the sentences" handed down.  His government indicated, however, that it would not interfere with the due process of law.  On 29 November 2004, however, Attorney General Qoriniasi Bale announced that the government had decided to parole Seniloli on health grounds, in return for his resignation.
A similar scenario unfolded in the trial of Ratu Lalabalavu, the party leader, and Senator Ratu Josefa Dimuri, also a party member.  On 3 April 2005, Lalabalavu and Dimuri were convicted of unlawful assembly for their role aiding and abetting the 2000 coup by visiting rebels at the Sukanaivalu Barracks on 4 July that year, and were sentenced to eight months' imprisonment.  They were released on parole after serving just eleven days of their sentences.
Opposition politicians charged that the release of Seniloli, Lalabalavu, and Dimuri was for political reasons, as the six votes of the Conservative Alliance are needed to maintain the government's parliamentary majority.  The military also criticized their release.  This led to a series of exchanged in April 2005, with the Conservative Alliance accusing the military of meddling in politics, and the military in turn charging that Alliance politicians included many who had "created havoc" in the 2000 coup.  In a strongly worded statement on 25 April 2005, army spokesman Captain Neumi Leweni declared, "The RFMF would like to remind the CAMV that they were the very people who created the havoc from which the country is still trying to recover."
Trials of persons implicated in the 2000 coup, many of them Conservative Alliance members, are continuing.


== Controversies, 2005-2006 ==
A power struggle between the President and General Secretary of the party took place in September 2005.  On 30 July 2005, Cakobau signed an agreement with four other parties to establish an electoral coalition of parties supported mostly by indigenous Fijians to contest the general election scheduled for 2006.  Sivo opposed the decision, and said that Cakobau had acted without proper authority.  Each subsequently called on the other to resign, and on 9 August, Cakobau said that he expected Sivo to be replaced by his predecessor, Ratu Josefa Dimuri.  Sivo countered that he had no intention of relinquishing his position, and said that he could be only removed if the party judged him unfit for the post.  He reiterated on 16 September that he would not stand aside for Dimuri.  Responding to a letter that Cakobau had sent to Dimuri reinstating him, Sivo said that Cakobau had no such powers.  He accused him of taking advantage of the famous Cakobau name to make unilateral decisions that were beyond his authority.
The public disagreement between Cakobau and Sivo appeared to be related to a wider debate about the policies and effectiveness of the party as a member of the ruling coalition.  Without naming particular individuals, Sivo criticized certain colleagues on the CAMV executive on 17 September of being too subservient to the Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua, the dominant partner in the ruling coalition.  The party should have pushed for the Reconciliation, Tolerance, and Unity Bill three years ago, Sivo said.  The controversial legislation, promoted by the government in 2005, proposed to establish a commission empowered to compensate victims and pardon perpetrators of the 2000 coup, many of whom were supporters of the CAMV.


== Policies ==
The CAMV contested the 2001 election on a platform calling for a greater emphasis on indigenous rights and the proclamation of Christianity (the faith of most ethnic Fijians, but relatively few Indo-Fijians), as the official religion of Fiji.  Officially, the party accepts the 1997 Constitution, calling it "a workable document," but in practice many of its elected representatives have strongly criticised it.
Despite its strongly nationalist image, reinforced by the arrest and conviction of many of its members for participation in the 2000 coup, the CAMV claims to espouse nonracial policies.  The party President, Ratu Tanoa Cakobau, said on 8 June 2005 that anybody respected by the population could be Prime Minister, regardless of his or her race or status.  He said this in response to a comment from Poseci Bune, Deputy Leader of the Fiji Labour Party, that the country should be ready for a non-indigenous Prime Minister.


== Merger with SDL ==
Party President Ratu Tanoa Cakobau announced on 9 February 2006 that the party would contest Fijian communal and open constituencies in the upcoming election.  In another development, however, it was announced on 16 February 2006 that the party would be deregistering, in order to merge with the Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua (SDL) ahead of the elections.
Fiji Television reported on 20 February that a letter alleged to have been written by Ratu Tanoa Cakobau had requested that the six CAMV parliamentarians be endorsed, unopposed, as SDL candidates.  The SDL confirmed having received letter, written in Fijian and addressed to Prime Minister Qarase and to the SDL President, but Cakobau said that some portions of it were not authentic; his name had been written differently from the way he uses it official correspondence, he said.
The Prime Minister responded that all candidacies for the SDL were open, and that there would be no automatic endorsement of candidates, ex-CAMV or otherwise.  All would have to go through the required selection procedure.
The next day, Fiji Live revealed that in addition to the six parliamentarians, five other CAMV figures were seeking endorsement as SDL candidates.
Radio New Zealand quoted Party President Ratu Tanoa Cakobau as saying on 28 February that the party had sacrificed little in its merger with the SDL.  The party had abandoned its goal of freeing all coup convicts as long ago as 2002, he claimed.  "We had to reconsider everything, in the beginning we were all out for everything, but then we realised that there’s something called the law that we had to respect, we had to follow. And through that process most of my party members, except myself, went to jail," Cakobau said.
The merger was not quite finalized until 3 July 2006, when the party was officially deregistered.  General Secretary Ratu Rakuita Vakalalabure said on 28 February that the party was seeking legal advice after questions had been raised concerning the legality of the merger; his successor as General Secretary, Ropate Sivo, had said that CAMV parliamentarians could not legally remain in office if their political party was dissolved.  Official deregistration, therefore, would likely have to await the end of the current parliamentary session, a stance he reiterated on 3 March.  Sivo, for his part, told Fiji Live that he planned to meet Opposition Leader Mahendra Chaudhry to discuss the matter.  On 20 February, however, Prime Minister Qarase said that there was no question of the six CAMV parliamentarians being disqualified.  Despite the dissolution of the party, they would continue to sit under the auspices of the CAMV, he said.
The Fiji Sun reported on 10 March that CAMV parliamentarian and lawyer Niko Nawaikula had inquired of the Supervisor of Elections about the procedures to follow for deregistering the party.


=== Factors influencing the merger ===
The decision to deregister the party was formalized at the party's annual general meeting the next day.  Despite some dissent, the motion was passed on a voice vote. Ratu Naiqama Lalabalavu told the meeting that in accordance with Fijian protocol, President Ratu Josefa Iloilo had been informed of the decision, as had the chiefs of Vanua Levu, Naitasiri, and Tailevu - the areas where the party has the most support.  The party executive called on all indigenous-led parties to follow their lead and unite under the banner of the SDL, in order to present the electorate with a united front to guarantee continued indigenous national leadership. Lalabalavu said that the party was concerned about continued imprisonment of persons convicted of the Fiji coup of 2000, many of them CAMV supporters, but considered that the SDL-led government was addressing that matter through its Reconciliation, Tolerance, and Unity Bill.
The Fiji Live news service claimed on 19 February that financial considerations may have played a role in the decision to disband the CAMV.  The SDL had reportedly donated F$15,000 to pay the legal fees of prominent citizens, many of them CAMV supporters, who were implicated in the 2000 coup a point highlighted at the CAMV meeting.  The party leader, Ratu Naiqama Lalabalavu, was also quoted as telling opponents of the merger that their failure to contribute to the party's coffers had left it with insufficient funds to continue as a viable party.  Party treasurer Jone Kauvesi concurred, saying that the CAMV bank account of F$36,351.07 on 26 May 2004 had been boosted to F$50,713.36 on 7 July by the SDL donation, but by February 2006 his had been depleted and only F$3235.31 remained.  The bulk of the fund - over F$31,000 had gone in legal fees, Kauvesi said, with the Abhay Singh and Associates legal firm alone being paid F$7,400.  Travel, funeral expenses, advertising in newspapers, byelection campaigns, and meetings had accounted for the rest.
The SDL appeared to see the merger from a different point of view from the CAMV.  According to a Radio New Zealand report on 18 February, SDL campaign director Jale Baba said that the CAMV had dissolved of its own accord and joined the SDL, not that the two parties had merged.  "In fact there’s a misconception that there’s a merger between the two parties. What has happened is that the CAMV has decided to wind up that party and for them to become members of the SDL party," Baba said.


=== Reaction to the merger ===
The Fiji Sun quoted former Prime Minister Sitiveni Rabuka as hailing the merger as "the way forward for the Fijian people."  Nationalist Vanua Tako Lavo Party general secretary Viliame Savu, however, condemned the merger.
Fiji Labour Party leader Mahendra Chaudhry said that the merger could misfire.  He doubted that all CAMV supporters would transfer their allegiance to the SDL, thinking it more likely that some would move to other parties at election time.  United Peoples Party leader Mick Beddoes similarly judged the decision to be unwise.  Fiji Village quoted him on the 19th as saying that the merger could further polarize Fiji's ethnic communities.
The Soqosoqo ni Vakavulewa ni Taukei (SVT), from which the CAMV originally broke away, said on 23 February 2006 that not all CAMV members supported the merger with the SDL.  Ema Druavesi, General Secretary of the SVT, told the Fiji Village news service that the door was open for former CAMV members to join the SVT.
People's National Party (PNP) General Secretary Meli Bogileka also criticized the merger, and said that the PNP was reconsidering its position in the Grand Coalition Initiative Group.
In a statement written in Fijian and released on 22 February, the Military criticized the merger as a sign of increasing ethno-nationalism, which it described as a threat to the country's long-term stability.  For the SDL to accept the CAMV members into its ranks was a betrayal of the trust the Military had invested in Qarase when appointing him Prime Minister in 2000 and supporting him subsequently, Fiji Live (23 February) reported the statement as saying.  The 23 February edition of the Fiji Times quoted Rabukawaqa as saying that certain political elements would stop at nothing to pursue their personal political ambitions.  'They wish to continue to keep the masses in abject poverty so that they can be beguiled by the continued lie of foreigners wanting to take their land from them," Rabukawaqa said.  Rabukawaqa said that nationalism was a good thing when it was state based, but could only lead to hatred and instability if based on ethnicity.


== A new CAMV? ==
CAMV members objecting to the merger with the SDL included Ropate Sivo, the former General Secretary.  He told Fiji Village that he was seeking legal advice on whether the vote to dissolve the party had been conducted legally.  He had visited Metuisela Mua, Eroni Lewaqai and Viliame Sousouwai in prison (where they are serving for coup-related offences) and had been advised by them to pursue legal action, he said.  George Speight and the former leader, Ratu Rakuita Vakalalabure were also adamantly opposed to the merger, he claimed.
Sivo reiterated his opposition to the merger on 27 February, saying that it breached the constitution of the party.  Only the management board could authorize a dissolution, and Tailevu was the only Province represented at the meeting, the Fiji Sun quoted him as claiming.  The move was a private agreement between the SDL and Ratu Naiqama Lalabalavu, he said, adding that many who disagreed with the merger were remaining silent only because of their traditional obligation to Lalabalavu as a Paramount Chief.  He made a strong attack on Prime Minister Qarase, calling on him to resign, and mooted the establishment of a new party under the old CAMV label.
Sivo rejected claims made by General Secretary Ratu Josefa Dimuri that the party had begun in the north of the country and largely built by Lalabalvu, Isireli Leweniqila, and himself.  On the contrary, Sivo claimed that the groundwork had been laid by Vakalalabure, his brother Ratu Tevita, and himself; Sivo had provided part of his own restaurant in Suva for a party office, he claimed.  "These people joined the bandwagon when it was up and running. That is why they don’t have the foresight to complete the work we have started, and that is to fulfill the aspirations of the Fijian people and the release of our brothers in jail," the Fiji Sun (1 March) quoted him as saying.  He accused Dimuri of failing to read a letter at the meeting held to dissolve the party; Dimuri countered by saying that no such letter had been received.  Sivo affirmed his belief in the ideals articulated by the Speight-led Taukei Cabinet on 19 May 2000, saying that they would never die.
Countering Sivo's version, the Fiji Times (2 March) quoted Dimuri as saying that the meeting to dissolve the party had been attended by over four hundred cadres and that the decision to join the SDL had been nearly unanimous.  He rejected Sivo's claims about the origins of the party, saying that he personally had registered the party in Labasa.  He also denied that George Speight had opposed the decision, saying that if he had objected to the dissolution of the party, he would have informed his brother and CAMV Cabinet Minister Samisoni Tikoinasau, who visited him regularly in prison.
Fiji Live quoted a Fiji Sun report on 13 June 2006 as saying that Sivo had announced plans to revive the party, with a view to campaigning for the release of George Speight and other parties to the 2000 coup.


== Revival ==
On 9 September 2008, former members of the Conservative Alliance applied to re-register the party with the Electoral Commission so it can contest the next election. The new incarnation of the party will be led by Ropate Sivo.


== References ==

Airservices Australia is an Australian Government–owned corporation, responsible for providing services to the aviation industry within the Australian Flight Information Region (FIR). Some of Airservices Australia’s responsibilities include air traffic control, airway navigation, communication facilities, publishing aeronautical data, airport rescue, and fire-fighting services. Airservices Australia has international partnerships with ICAO, CANSO and IATA.


== Responsibilities ==
Airservices Australia manages air traffic within Australian airspace. This includes the airspace over continental Australia, territorial waters and also international airspace boundaries over the Pacific and Indian Oceans. Airservices Australia also manages upper-level airspace (above 24,500 ft) under contract to the neighbouring Pacific Island Flight Information Regions of the Solomon Islands and Nauru.
Airservices Australia publishes aeronautical data, maintains telecommunications infrastructure, radio navigation aids, updates flight procedures and provides emergency services, including the Aviation Rescue Fire Fighting services at 26 of Australia's busiest airports.
The agency is fully funded by direct charges to the aviation industry and controlled by a board of directors, accountable to the Australian Parliament through the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. The Chair of Airservices Australia Board is John Weber. The Chief Executive Officer is Rob Sharp, who was appointed on a four-year term in January 2025, replacing Jason Harfield. The agency maintains more than 4,000 skilled aviation professionals, including air traffic controllers, engineering specialists, technicians and support staff working from two major control centres, 29 air traffic control towers and firefighting stations at 26 of Australia's busiest airports.


== Air traffic control operations ==

Airservices Australia has 29 air traffic control towers and two air traffic control centres based in Brisbane and Melbourne. Australia has two Flight Information Regions which are managed by these centres. All airspace to the north of the dividing boundary (YBBB) is controlled by Brisbane Centre and all airspace to the south of the boundary (YMMM) is controlled by Melbourne Centre. These centres cover the whole of Australia with the exception of Perth and Sydney Terminal Control Units as well as the towers at major airports. In addition, Melbourne Centre is responsible for managing traffic handovers from South Africa, Mauritius, Sri Lanka, Maldives, Indonesia and New Zealand. Brisbane Centre manages traffic handovers from neighbouring flight information regions including East Timor, Papua New Guinea, Fiji and the United States.
En-route controllers (also referred to as Area/Centre Controllers) located in Brisbane and Melbourne are responsible for all aircraft flying at upper levels above 25,000 ft (7,600 m). These controllers are responsible for the majority of air traffic over the Australian mainland and on oceanic routes within Australia's flight information region.
In 1999, the agency commenced using The Australian Advanced Air Traffic System (TAAATS), a computerised air traffic control system covering all sectors of Australian air space.
In 2013, Airservices was ranked among the world's best as part of an international safety benchmarking study undertaken by the Civil Air Navigation Services Organisation (CANSO). The study placed Airservices in second place for air navigation service providers (ANSP) in relation to the maturity of the organisation's Safety Management System, with a score of more than 90% effectiveness.


== History ==
 

The Civil Aviation Branch of the Department of Defence was established on 28 March 1921, after Parliament passed the Air Navigation Act 1920 in December 1920. The organisation was reformed as a separate Government Department, the Department of Civil Aviation (DCA), on 14 November 1938 after the enquiry into the crash of the DC-2 aircraft Kyeemah in 1938. Arthur Corbett was appointed director-general of Civil Aviation in April 1939, serving until his retirement in August 1944. From June 1946 to December 1955 the director-general was Richard Williams, formerly RAAF Chief of the Air Staff. Donald Anderson held the position of director-general from January 1956 until September 1973.
On 30 November 1973 the DCA merged with the Department of Shipping and Transport and became the Department of Transport, Air Transport Group. This group was again reformed as its own Department on 7 May 1982, the Department of Aviation (DOA).  Another merger took place on 24 July 1987 when the DOA was absorbed by the Department of Transport and Communications. On 1 July 1988 the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) was formed to control aviation safety regulation and provide air traffic services.


=== 1995 split ===
The CAA was split into two separate government organisations in July 1995: Airservices Australia and the Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA). Airservices Australia took responsibility for airspace management, aeronautical information, communications, radio navigation aids, airport rescue firefighting services, and aviation search and rescue, while CASA assumed control of safety regulations, licensing of pilots and aviation engineers, and certification of aircraft and operators. The role of aviation search and rescue was transferred from Airservices Australia to the Australian Maritime Safety Authority in 1997.


== OneSky ==
Since 2015, Thales Australia has been contracted to provide a replacement for TAAATS. The program will be a joint civil-military air traffic management system, called OneSKY, based on the Thales TopSky system.


== Industrial and legal actions ==


=== 1997 tender for air traffic system operations ===
Following a dispute over tender evaluation, the Federal Court of Australia found in 1997 that CAA had failed to evaluate tender submissions in line with the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing which bidders were entitled to expect. The judge, Finn J, commented in his judgment thatFair dealing is a major (if not openly articulated) organising idea in Australian law ... The implied duty is, as is well known, an accepted idea in the contract law of the United States... Its status in civil law is well recognised...[and a] more open recognition in our own contract law is now warranted.


=== 2009 ATC industrial dispute ===
Airservices Australia entered negotiations with the Air Traffic Control union Civil Air in early 2008 to form a new collective agreement. As negotiations continued, ATC staff shortages were said to contribute to what was the worst year on record for flight delays and cancellations, but had been earlier defended by Airservices CEO Greg Russell as having been caused by a group of "renegade air traffic controllers" who had been responsible for airspace closures in a form of covert industrial action.
Despite claims by the union that the problem was caused by a shortage of controllers, the figures provided by Airservices show the average number of controllers has not changed significantly over the previous three years.
Complaints by airline Virgin Blue culminated in a demand for $500,000 compensation in October 2008. An attempt by Airservices to define obligatory reasonable overtime for its controllers failed in the AIRC in late December 2008.
Remaining differences in position regarding wages and sick leave resulted in threatened industrial action by late January 2009. High-level intervention of CEO Greg Russell and ACTU President Sharan Burrow in the negotiations produced an offer which averted industrial action and was endorsed almost unanimously by the Air Traffic Controllers.
The collective agreement negotiation saw 83% of staff register their vote, with 95 per cent voting for the agreement. The new agreement led to a pay increase of 4.3% per annum over 3.5 years with changes to sick leave and rostering arrangements.
As of September 2009, Air Traffic Control staffing problems continued to disrupt the ability of Airservices Australia to provide its core function, precipitating an unprecedented cancellation of leave for the entire Sydney approach control unit for three months.
In its 2010–13 Workforce Plan, Airservices claimed that as of December 2009 the required number of operational ATC staff were available, reflecting the impact of a significant increase in recruitment and training throughout 2008–09. Airservices further plans to recruit close to 100 ATC trainees annually to 2013 to offset the impact of retirements and resignations.
In 2013, an independent review of air traffic controller numbers at Airservices by air navigation services provider, NAV CANADA, confirmed that the organisation had the appropriate number of operational air traffic controllers to meet its requirements.


=== 2010 alleged sexual harassment and bullying court action ===
On 28 July 2010 a Federal Court action was brought against Airservices Australia by two air traffic controllers employed by the agency for alleged bullying and sexual harassment within the workplace.


=== 2019 culture review by Elizabeth Broderick ===
In August 2019 following media publicity over complaints of ongoing sexual harassment, Airservices engaged Elizabeth Broderick and Co. to conduct a culture review.


== See also ==

Australian Air Traffic Control
Australian Transport Safety Bureau
Civil Air Navigation Services Organisation
Department of Infrastructure, Transport, Regional Development, Communications, Sport and the Arts
GNSS augmentation
National Council for Fire & Emergency Services


== References ==


== External links ==
Airservices Australia

John Christian Kornblum (February 6, 1943 – December 21, 2023) was an American diplomat and businessman. He entered the American Foreign Service in 1964. Over the next 35 years, he served at the State Department in Washington D.C. and in Europe, eventually becoming Ambassador to Germany. From 2001 onward, he established himself as an investment banker and international business consultant.
Kornblum was considered a leading expert on transatlantic economic and political affairs and on the evolving role of the Atlantic community in a multipolar world. He lectured and wrote widely in both German and English and was known especially for his press and television commentaries on the implications of globalization on both sides of the Atlantic.


== Diplomatic service ==
During his foreign service career, Kornblum specialized in European and east–west relations and played a defining role in many of the important events leading up to the end of the Cold War. These included the Quadripartite negotiations on Berlin (1970–1973), the Helsinki Final Act (1973–1975), the Belgrade Conference of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) from 1977 to 1978, the stationing of [intermediate] nuclear weapons in Europe (INF) in the 1980s, U.S. President Ronald Reagan's historic 1987 appearance at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, German reunification (1990), the Helsinki Summit Conference of the OSCE (1992), the Dayton Agreement on the Balkans (1995), enlargement of NATO (1997), the post-Cold War security settlement with Russia and Ukraine and the agreement on compensation of slave laborers and establishment of the Reconciliation Foundation of German Industry (2000). Kornblum also served as U.S. Special Envoy to the Balkans (1995–1997) and directed two dramatic prisoner and spy exchanges on the Glienicke Bridge in Berlin in 1985 and 1986. The latter featured the release of Soviet dissident Anatoly Shcharansky (now known as Natan Sharansky).
Kornblum was a member of the State Department's Policy Planning Staff under Henry Kissinger (1973–1975), Director of the State Department's Office of Central European Affairs (1981–1985), United States Minister and Deputy Commandant in Berlin (1985–1987), Deputy Ambassador to NATO (1987–1991), Ambassador and head of the U.S. Mission to the OSCE in Vienna (1991–1994), and Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs and Special Envoy to the Balkans (1995–1997). He served as the Ambassador to Germany from 1997 to 2001.
Kornblum was present from the beginning of negotiation of the Helsinki Final Act in 1973 and contributed several times to its implementation in the following years. He played a leading role in negotiating the Helsinki Summit Declaration, the "Challenges of Change" which devised a new operational role for the then Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). Returning to Washington in 1994, he oversaw development of a post-Cold War Atlantic security strategy, including the enlargement of NATO in 1997, the NATO-Russia Council, the NATO-Ukraine Council, and the expansion, renaming, and reorganization of the CSCE to OSCE. In 1995 Kornblum was one of the main architects of the Dayton Peace Agreement.


=== Deputy Commandant in Berlin (1985–1987) ===
Kornblum's more than forty years of active presence in Europe rendered him one of the most experienced and effective American practitioners on Europe and Atlantic relations. Sometimes by chance, often by design, he was often at the center of dramatic events. A highpoint of his efforts was the June 1987 speech by President Ronald Reagan at the Brandenburg Gate in Berlin.  Kornblum conceived and organized the event and worked for more than a year to gain acceptance for political initiatives which included the famous "tear down this wall" phrase in the President's speech.
Kornblum elaborated on the complex diplomacy which preceded President Reagan's speech at the Brandenburg Gate in an article entitled "Reagan's Brandenburg Concerto" (an allusion to the complex work of the Brandenburg concertos by Bach), which appeared in the May/June 2007 issue of The American Interest and was reprinted in the German newspaper Die Welt on June 12, 2007. Kornblum disclosed that Reagan's delivery of the speech at the most dramatic site along the Berlin Wall was planned for more than a year in advance by U.S. diplomats in Germany and Washington as a counterweight to the growing sentiment within Germany for an arrangement with the new, liberal Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. Many Germans had begun to hope that in exchange for legal acceptance of the sovereignty of East Germany, the West could obtain the inclusion of West Berlin into West Germany and a gradual opening of the Wall. Any such deal with Gorbachev would have undermined hopes for a speedy German reunification and the liberation of Eastern Europe. Reagan's dramatic challenge to Gorbachev to "tear down this wall" was anything but an ad hoc remark. It was conceived by Kornblum and his team as a memorable slogan for a broader American initiative to remind both East and West that the United States was not willing to accept an undemocratic status quo in the center of Europe. The speech included a number of proposals to accelerate democratic change by making the wall more porous, and thus helped Gorbachev to open it. Kornblum's article goes on to describe the many political pressures exerted in Germany and Washington as this initiative was being implemented and concludes with reflections on the significance of the speech from a perspective 20 years later.


=== At NATO (1987–1991) ===
His service at NATO included helping prepare the new Alliance strategy after 1990 and negotiation of NATO's position for the conventional forces negotiations with the Soviet Union.


=== At OSCE Vienna (1991–1994) ===
From 1992 to 1994 Kornblum opened and headed the first American Mission to the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE).


=== Special Envoy to the Balkans (1995–1997) ===
Kornblum served for two years as United States Special Envoy to the Balkans from 1995 to 1997.


=== Ambassador to Germany (1997–2001) ===
Kornblum's tenure as Ambassador to Germany was highlighted by the move of the German government from the West German capital in Bonn on the Rhine to a reunified Berlin. In 1999, he opened the Embassy of the United States in Berlin for the first time since it had been closed on December 8, 1941. The embassy was first housed in the building formerly used as the American Embassy to the German Democratic Republic. Constructing a new chancery on the site of the prewar building at the Brandenburg Gate turned out to be a difficult undertaking. Heightened United States security requirements led to a long and at times bitter dispute with Berlin authorities during which Kornblum became the target of repeated political and public criticism. Shortly before leaving office in 2001, Kornblum negotiated a settlement which was ultimately confirmed by U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell in 2003. The new embassy opened on July 4, 2008.


== Later activities ==

After leaving diplomatic service, Kornblum pursued parallel career tracks in business, consulting, and political commentary in Europe and the United States. From 2001 to 2009, Kornblum served as chairman of the investment bank Lazard Freres Germany, which he helped build into one of the leading investment banks in Central Europe. He was also a member of the supervisory boards of Bayer AG, Thyssen-Krupp Technologies, and Motorola Europe. He was a member of the advisory councils of Russell Reynolds Associates and Consultum AG, and an advisor to the Finnish Innovation Fund SITRA and to the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
Kornblum served on numerous non-profit boards including the American Academy in Berlin, the German Institute for Community Organizing (DICO), and the Deutsche Oper in Berlin. He later served as adviser to a number of transatlantic companies including the international law firm Noerr and Pfizer.  As of July 2010, Kornblum was also a member of the German Government Council for Immigration and Integration.
During the last ten years of his life, Kornblum established a strong public voice defining the implications for Europe and the United States of the new era in global politics which followed the end of the Cold War. He built on both his diplomatic and business experience to focus particularly on the issues connected with the rapidly changing relationships between government and the private sector in a globally integrated world. He spoke and wrote regularly in Europe and the United States on economic, security, and political issues. Kornblum did regular commentary for several European and American networks on American politics and foreign policy.  Also, he was on the advisory board of OMFIF where he was regularly involved in meetings regarding the financial and monetary system.
Looking to the future of the Atlantic world, Kornblum presented his vision for the evolution of Germany and Europe in an article published in the November/December 2009 issue of the conservative political journal The American Interest. Here he argued that the end of Cold War confrontation and spread of free market systems made possible the establishment of a tight web of open-sourced networks which overcome traditional geography and create new patterns of culture and trade. Kornblum suggested that increasing global integration would gradually reduce Germany's fear of being caught in the middle of big power confrontation and give it a new sense of confidence. He concluded, "With its deepening sense of being at the center of a newly integrated world will come a growing sense of responsibility that will cause the ghosts of the past to gradually recede. Germany will not answer lingering questions about its normalcy; it will transcend them. By our lights today, Germany will not be normal, but nothing else will be either." A German translation of this article appeared in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung on November 6, 2009.
Kornblum expanded his commentary on the Obama era in the book Mission Amerika (2009), written in German together with well-known television commentator Dieter Kronzucker. Here the authors argued that the basis for the vision of change proclaimed by President Obama was created by wide-ranging social and demographic changes that had taken place in the United States during the preceding thirty years. They suggested that Obama's victory was a result of both a skillful campaign and a dramatic evolution of American society, which delivered a ready audience for Obama's ideas. They warned, however, that Obama's program of transformation was likely to encounter heavy resistance in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.
During 2012 and 2013, Ambassador Kornblum served as a campaign advisor to the Georgian Dream party of Bidzina Ivanishvili. Ivanishvili credited him with playing an important role in Georgian Dream's 2012 victory, the first peaceful transfer of power in recent Georgian history. In later correspondence, Senator Charles E. Grassley queried whether Kornblum's activity had been registered in accordance with FARA legislation.
In June 2013 Kornblum became the founding chairman of the John F. Kennedy Atlantic Forum which was established to apply the principles of risk and reward culture to the growing trans-Atlantic entrepreneurial culture in Germany and Berlin.


== Awards ==
Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany: Great Cross of Merit, 1990
Verdienstkreuz, Republic of Austria, 1994
Distinguished Honor Award, Department of State, 1996
Honorary Citizenship, Sarajevo, 1997
Distinguished Alumnus, Michigan State University, 1999
Ritter wider den tierischen Ernst, Aachen, 1999 (Aachen Carnival Award)
Secretary's Award, US Department of State, 2000
Silver Medal, American Chamber of Commerce in Germany, 2000
Several Superior Honor Awards, Department of State, 1964–2001
Medal of Honor, Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, 2013


== Board memberships ==
Bayer AG (2002–2008)
Thyssen-Krupp Technologies (2001–2006)
Motorola GmbH, Germany (2005–2008)
Advisory Board Consultum AG. Berlin (2006–2012)
Advisory Board Russell Reynolds (2008–2014)
Advisory Board chairman, Management Circle (2008–2018)
Non-profit boards:

American Chamber of Commerce in Germany (AmCham Germany), Member of the board of directors
American Academy in Berlin, Secretary
American Institute for Contemporary German Studies (AICGS)
American Council on Germany
John F. Kennedy Atlantic Forum, Berlin, Chairman
Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), Washington
Deutsche Oper Berlin
Internationale Martin Luther Stiftung, Erfurt
German Historical Museum, Berlin
KCRW Berlin, Chairman
John F. Kennedy Institute, Free University of Berlin
Deutsches Institut für Community Organizing, Berlin
Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum, London


== Personal life and death ==
John Kornblum's grandparents emigrated from Germany to America in the fall of 1882. He was married to Helen Sen Kornblum from 1987 until his death. They have two sons, Alexander (born 1988) and Stephen (born 1990).
Kornblum died in Nashville, Tennessee, on December 21, 2023, at the age of 80.


== Selected works ==
"The World Looks Up to the Germans". American Institute For Contemporary German Studies. 2006. Retrieved September 26, 2007.
"Frei sein oder gleich sein?". Die Welt (in German). November 19, 2006. Retrieved September 26, 2007.
"Remapping the World," Die Welt, July 2, 2008.
The German Element, 2003
"Reagan's Brandenburg Concerto", The American Interest, May/June 2007
"Dialogue on the Expansion of NATO" (with Michael Mandelbaum), The American Interest, March/April 2008
"Governing by Network," Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung, January 10, 2009
Mission Amerika. Weltmacht am Wendepunkt (with Dieter Kronzucker and Redline Verlag), Gebundene Ausgabe, April 17, 2009
"From the Middle to the Center: German Normality in an Integrated World", The American Interest, November/December 2009, pp. 68–70.
"Zentrum einer integrierten Welt," Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, November 6, 2009, p. 8.
"Germany in Need of a Dream," International Herald Tribune, April 23, 2010, page 6.
" Germany at 65, A New Chapter Begins,"  p. 23 Reflections on 20 Years of German Reunification American Institute for Contemporary German Studies, Washington, 2010.
"We Need a New Atlanticism," published in German in "Handelsblatt," April 15, 2011, p. 9.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to John C. Kornblum at Wikimedia Commons

Appearances on C-SPAN

Princess Kaiulani (sometimes titled Barbarian Princess) is a 2009 British-American biographical drama film based on the life of Princess Kaʻiulani (1875–1899) of the Kingdom of Hawaiʻi.


== Plot ==
At ʻIolani Palace, Princess Kaʻiulani and the rest of the royal family prepare for a ceremony that night to light Honolulu with only electricity. That evening, however, the ceremony is interrupted when a large group of armed white men enter the palace grounds. Led by Lorrin Thurston, the men demand that Kaʻiulani's uncle, King Kalākaua, sign a new constitution to restrict the power of the monarchy as well as to grant huge governmental powers to citizens of European ancestry. The situation soon devolves into a tense standoff between Thurston's men and the Royal Guards. Amidst the chaos of the moment Kaʻiulani is taken away for her own safety by her Scottish father, Archie Cleghorn, and sent to England for both protection and education.
Now in England, Kaʻiulani struggles to fit in as her Polynesian heritage makes her a target of racism and offensive stereotypes from the Europeans whom she meets. She does make some friends, including the handsome young Clive Davies. They develop a relationship and the two become engaged. But one day her father returns from Hawaiʻi after several years and, to her shock, informs her that her uncle, King Kalākaua, had died shortly after being forced to sign the new constitution by Thurston and Sanford B. Dole. He then informs her that a failed native rebellion against the new constitution gave Thurston a reason to arrest and depose Queen Liliʻuokalani, overthrowing the monarchy and declaring Hawaiʻi a republic. After discovering that the Davies family knew of her family's overthrow but hid the news from her Kaʻiulani decides to call off her engagement and leave England. She travels to the United States where she gathers media attention and denounces the overthrow as well as the U.S.'s involvement. Her cultured, regal appearance overcomes the racist views against her, and many note that she is not the "Barbarian Princess" she was depicted as at all. Her campaign against the overthrow climaxes with her meeting U.S. President Grover Cleveland. At a lunch with the President, Kaʻiulani charms him and convinces him to actively oppose the overthrow, which he does by refusing to annex Hawaiʻi as an American territory. Unfortunately for Kaʻiulani, this act is done during the waning days of the Cleveland administration, and a few weeks later President William McKinley is inaugurated.
When Kaʻiulani returns to Hawaiʻi, she learns the new president has not only failed to oppose the overthrow but has also accepted Thurston's annexation proposal, annexing Hawaiʻi as a territory of the United States. She attends a small private funeral for the Kingdom of Hawaiʻi, hosted by her aunt, Queen Liliʻuokalani. Shortly after her return, she is visited by Sanford B. Dole, who explains that three U.S. legal commissioners are arriving, and that he and Thurston would like the Princess to host a small dinner for them. Though she is appalled at the impertinent request, he convinces her that it might be to her advantage to. At the dinner, Kaʻiulani charms her visitors before surprising Thurston by publicly petitioning for an amendment to the annexation treaty to guarantee universal suffrage and voting rights to all Native Hawaiians. She is disregarded by an appalled Thurston, who points out she is not a recognized diplomat before Dole stands up for the princess and declares he will petition the amendment for her. As the amendment gathers support amongst the dinner guests, Thurston leaves, embarrassed and furious.
After the dinner, Kaʻiulani is surprised to learn that her former fiancé Clive has come to Hawaiʻi, as he had promised he would, and she goes to see him. He tells her that his father has died and he is now in charge of his assets, including those in Hawaiʻi. The two make up, and Clive asks Kaʻiulani to return to England and marry him. She refuses, stating that her future is in Hawaiʻi. When he equally refuses to move to Hawaiʻi, the two share a last farewell kiss before Clive leaves for England. The film ends with Kaʻiulani returning her treasured seashells, which she had kept throughout her travels to remind her of Hawaiʻi, back to the ocean as she wades in the waves, with a voiceover saying that the bright flame of Kaʻiulani is kept alive by the love of her people. A post-credits card shows that Kaʻiulani died less than one year after the annexation, some say of a broken heart for the loss of her kingdom. Another card mentions that in 1993 President Clinton signed the Apology Resolution, apologizing to Hawaiʻi for the role the United States government played in the overthrow.


== Cast ==
Q'orianka Kilcher as Princess Kaʻiulani
Barry Pepper as Lorrin A. Thurston
Shaun Evans as Clive Davies
Will Patton as Sanford B. Dole
Ned Van Zandt as Senator Collum
Jimmy Yuill as Archibald Scott Cleghorn
Leo Anderson Akana as Queen Liliʻuokalani
Ocean Kaʻowili as King Kalākaua
Reupena Paopao Sheck as Prince David Kawānanakoa "Koa"
Kimo Kalilikane as Kalehua
Kamuela Kalilikane as Mamane
Peter Banks as President Grover Cleveland
Rosamund Stephen as Mrs. Cleveland
Julian Glover as Theophilus Harris Davies
Barbara Wilshere as Mrs. Mary Ellen Davies
Tamzin Merchant as Alice Davies
Catherine Steadman as Miss Barnes
Kainoa Kilcher as Kaleo
Laura Soller as Mrs. Anna Dole
Christian Brassington as Duke of Winchester
Olivia Mardon as Duchess of Winchester
Jay Lembeck as Premier Walter M. Gibson
Kaʻalakaʻiopono Faurot as Keiki (Baby) Kaʻiulani


== Controversy ==
The film's working title Barbarian Princess provoked controversy in Hawaiʻi, with individuals stating that it brings up painful memories of past discrimination, whereas others thought that would be a title for a fantasy gothic film akin to Conan the Barbarian (1982).  In response, the title was briefly changed to The Last Princess, changed to Princess Kaiulani later in 2008, then shown as Barbarian Princess for the 2009 festival.  The producers stated that the title was meant to be ironic and is meant to draw audiences who may not be familiar with the history of Hawaiʻi. The film was finally released for wider distribution as Princess Kaiulani.
Many native Hawaiians were disappointed that the film used a non-Hawaiian for the title role.


== Critical reception ==
As of June 2020, the film holds a 21% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 38 reviews with an average rating of 4.5/10. The website's critics consensus reads: "A middling biopic about an important figure in Hawaiian history, Princess Kaiulani looks and feels like a TV movie of the week and offers about as much insight." Roger Ebert called it an "interesting but creaky biopic."
Hailed by the Hollywood Reporter and panned by the New York press, Princess Kaiulani was either praised or left audiences cold.
The film won the Audience Award for "Best Feature" at the 2009 Honolulu International Film Festival in a tie with Precious: Based on the Novel "Push" by Sapphire.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Princess Kaiulani at IMDb
Princess Kaiulani at Rotten Tomatoes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gubVK_Si-Y4#t=334 Comments by Palani Vaughan

American Monthly magazine was the original official monthly magazine published by the National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution (NSDAR). The magazine was published between 1892 and 2001.


== History and profile ==
The magazine was established in 1892 with the name The American Monthly. The headquarters of the magazine was in Washington DC. In 1913 it was renamed as Daughters of the American Revolution Magazine.
Later titles were Daughters of the American Revolution Magazine, and The National Historical Magazine. In 2001, under the administration of President General Linda Tinker Watkins, the NSDAR split the content into two magazines, a new periodical called American Spirit, containing "articles pertaining to American history, historic preservation, patriotism, genealogy and education", and Daughters of the American Revolution Newsletter, a newsletter covering members' concerns from national headquarters.
Ellen Hardin Walworth, one of the original four founders of the DAR, was the initial editor of the magazine. She was the periodical's editor from the spring of 1892 until July 1894. Catharine Hitchcock Tilden Avery later served in that role.


== References ==


=== Bibliography ===
 This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain:  Western Publishing and Engraving Company (1900). Cyclopedia of Michigan: historical and biographical... by Western Publishing and Engraving Company (New York, New York) Cyclopedia of Michigan: historical and biographical : comprising a synopsis of general history of the state and biographical sketches of men who have, in their various spheres contributed toward its development (Public domain ed.). New York, New York.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)

Christie Will Wolf is a Canadian film and television writer, director and producer. She is best known for writing and directing a number of films, including Over The Moon, Her Infidelity, Eat, Play, Love, Boy Toy, Forever Christmas, Slightly Single in L.A., Yes, I Do, and more. Will has received the Directors Guild of Canada Legacy Award for the film Her Coming.


== Early life ==
Will was born in Ontario, Canada. Her parents died when she was a child. She went to boarding school at Trinity College School in Ontario Canada, and was in the first class of girls when the all male institution became co-ed. She received the Terry Fox Scholarship upon graduation. Will studied musical theatre at Emerson College in Boston.  She subsequently attended the College of Charleston, earning a Bachelor of Arts in Theatre and Art History, and later completed a Master of Fine Arts in Film and Creative Writing from the University of British Columbia.
After her studies, she moved to Los Angeles to work as a director, writer, and actor. She attended Playhouse West in Burbank, California and also worked for theatre. While dividing her time between Canada and Los Angeles, she founded The Beaumont Playhouse, a black box theatre in Vancouver teaching the works of Sanford Meisner.


== Career ==
Will produced, directed, and wrote her debut short film Dysfunction in 2006. She worked as an assistant to actor, director, and producer Peter Berg, and then worked for Paula Abdul developing her reality show Hey Paula. After that, she produced and developed several movies, including Hollywood & Wine, starring David Spade, Chris Kattan, Norm Macdonald, Chazz Palminteri, Chris Parnell, and the Farley brothers. She was a producer of Christmas in Wonderland, starring Patrick Swayze and Tim Curry, as well as Blonde and Blonder starring Pamela Anderson and Denise Richards. In 2009, Will made her first feature film Slightly Single in L.A, starring Jenna Dewan, Lacey Chabert, Chris Kattan, and Kip Pardue. She was the writer, director, and co-producer of the film, which was a pioneer acquisition for Netflix. She then wrote and directed the comedy Boy Toy, starring Mircea Monroe, Vivian Bang, and Morgan Fairchild, which was released by Lionsgate. Later, she wrote and directed A Holiday Heist, starring Vivica A. Fox. She has produced and directed made-for-TV films for the Hallmark Channel, Lifetime, and Up TV, including Becoming Santa, Baby Boot Camp, A Cookie Cutter Christmas, Her Infidelity, A Snow Capped Christmas, Killer Ending, Yes I Do and So You Said Yes, among others. In 2019, Wolf won the award for Best Screenwriting at The West Coast Canadian Screen Awards.


== Filmography ==


== References ==

Joseph Henry Woodnorth (December 17, 1845 – September 1, 1910) was an American merchant and Democratic politician.  He was a member of the Wisconsin State Senate, representing Shawano, Waupaca, and eastern Marathon counties during the 1891 and 1893 sessions. He also served in the Union Army during the American Civil War and received an honorary brevet to captain.


== Biography ==
Woodnorth was born on December 17, 1845, in New York City, the son of recent English American immigrants.  He moved with his family to Waupaca County, Wisconsin, in 1856, where his father purchased a farm.  Woodnorth was educated and worked on his father's farm until age 18, when he enlisted for service in the American Civil War.


== Civil War ==
Woodnorth entered service in the Union Army in December 1863, just days after his 18th birthday.  He was enrolled as a private in Company G of the 21st Wisconsin Infantry Regiment and served with the regiment through the Atlanta campaign.
On June 28, 1864, he was detailed to the personal staff of Major General George Henry Thomas, as an orderly.  That September, he was commissioned as a first lieutenant and assigned chief clerk to the brigade inspector general, working still on behalf of General Thomas.  He was ultimately granted a brevet to captain due to actions he took during the Battle of Franklin.  On that occasion, General Thomas wrote a letter of praise to his aide.

Headquarters of the Army of the Cumberland.
My Dear Sir:— I have the honor to congratulate you for the heroism and bravery you have this day shown, which I assure you, is fully recognized.  We have gained a great victory and you must share the honor.
As the 21st Wisconsin Infantry was mustered out of federal service and ceased to exist in June 1865, Woodnorth briefly transferred to the 3rd Wisconsin Infantry Regiment, and remained in the service until September 1865.


== Merchant and political career ==
After the war, he returned to Waupaca and worked on his father's farm.  In 1867 he was elected city marshal and served for three years.  In 1871, he was hired by Henry Mumbrue to manage the Gill's Landing Warehouse on the Wolf River.  A year later, he opened a drug store with Mumbrue as a partner, and in 1877 assumed full ownership of the store.
Over the next decade, Woodnorth held a number of public service roles, including city fire chief, city superintendent of schools (1878–1886), member of the Waupaca County board (1882–1883), and register of deeds (1880–1885).  In 1888 he was appointed Register of the United States General Land Office at Menasha by President Grover Cleveland.
Woodnorth assisted in the founding of the Wisconsin Veterans Home in King, Wisconsin and served on its board of trustees until his death. He also served as president of the Waupaca Starch and Potato Company, director of the National Bank of Waupaca, and vice president of the State Park Association of Milwaukee.
Running on the Democratic Party ticket, Woodnorth made his first run for Wisconsin State Senate in 1886, but was soundly defeated by Republican John E. Leahy.  Four years later, Woodnorth ran again and won the seat in the Democratic wave election of 1890.  He represented Wisconsin's 21st State Senate district, which then comprised all of Shawano and Waupaca counties, as well as the eastern half of Marathon County.  After the close of the 1893 legislative session he resigned from office to accept an appointment from President Cleveland to serve as U.S. pension agent for the Milwaukee district.
He died in 1910 at his home in Waupaca, Wisconsin, after a short time with pneumonia.


== Personal life ==
Joseph H. Woodnorth was the eldest nine children born to Paul Woodnorth and his wife Sarah. Paul and Sarah emigrated to the United States from England in 1842 and settled in New York City.  Paul Woodnorth was a tailor by trade and operated a tailor shop on Park Row in New York City.  He went west in 1849 to try his luck in the California Gold Rush but returned without much success.  Sarah Woodnorth was also active in business and operated a crockery shop in the city.  When they earned enough money, they purchased a farm in the town of Royalton, Wisconsin, in 1856.  They resided on that farm for three years before selling it and purchasing a farm in the town of Waupaca.  After selling his farm in Waupaca, Paul Woodnorth purchased land in Portage County, but never lived on that land, residing instead in the city of Waupaca until his death.
Joseph H. Woodnorth married Irene E. Vaughan, of Erie County, New York, on December 26, 1871, they had one child.
Joseph Woodnorth was active with the Grand Army of the Republic fraternal organization for Civil War veterans, and helped found the lodge in Waupaca.  He was also active with the Knights of Pythias.


== Electoral history ==


=== Wisconsin Senate (1886, 1890) ===


== References ==

Panagiotis "Takis" Roumeliotis (Greek: Παναγιώτης Ρουμελιώτης, born 19 August 1947), is a Greek economist, academic, banker and politician. A friend and advisor of Andreas Papandreou, he has served as Minister of National Economy, Minister of Commerce, Member of the European Parliament for PASOK and as Greece's representative at the International Monetary Fund. Since December 2011, he has been Vice Chairman of Piraeus Bank, Greece's largest.


== Biography ==
He was born in 1947 in Suez, Egypt, the son of a Greek businessman established there. He graduated with a degree in economics from the French School for Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences (École des hautes études en sciences sociales), and later received a PhD in economics from Pantheon-Sorbonne University, also in France.
He has taught economics at various universities in France and Greece. He has also been president of the French think tank IPEMED (Institut de prospective économique du monde méditerranéen).
His political career began in 1978, when he became an economic advisor to Andreas Papandreou. After Papandreou became Greece's Prime Minister in 1981, Roumeliotis served, successively, as:

October – December 1981: General Secretary of the Ministry of Coordination
December 1981 – July 1982: Deputy Minister of Coordination
July 1982 – September 1983: Deputy Minister of Finance
April 1984 – February 1987: Deputy Minister of National Economy
February – November 1987: Minister of Commerce
November 1987 – July 1989: Minister of National Economy
In 1989, he was indicted along with Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou and three other ministers for the Koskotas scandal.
He was Greece's representative at the International Monetary Fund (IMF).


== References ==

Singapore competed at the 2025 World Aquatics Championships in Singapore from 11 July to 3 August 2025. They were also the host country of the championships.
Singapore sent its largest contingent of athletes, 72, to the Championships.


== Competitors ==
The following is the list of competitors in the Championships.


== Athletes by discipline ==
The following is the number of competitors who will participate at the Championships per discipline.


== Artistic swimming ==

Mixed

Women


== Diving ==

Men

Women

Mixed


== Open water swimming ==

Men

Women

Mixed


== Swimming ==

Men

Women

Mixed


== Water polo ==

Summary


=== Men's tournament ===

Team roster
The following is the Singaporean roster.
Head coach: Kan Aoyagi

Group play

13th–16th place semifinals

15th place game


=== Women's tournament ===

Team roster
The following is the Singaporean roster.
Head coach: Yu Lei

Group play

13th–16th place semifinals

15th place game


== References ==

Simon Corney is a businessman and the former chairman, director and former owner of English football club Oldham Athletic.
Working in the field of telecommunications in New York City, Corney bought Oldham Athletic in 2004 with colleagues Danny Gazal and Simon Blitz. The football club had been close to liquidation before an investment of funds in 2004. Gazal and Blitz ceased any involvement with the club in 2010.
In 2014, Corney negotiated a sponsorship deal for Oldham's ground, Boundary Park, with sporting retail group SportsDirect.com which resulted in a ground name change to the SportsDirect.com Park.
In 2015, Corney was in controversial discussions to sign footballer and wrongly convicted rapist Ched Evans for Oldham Athletic. Evans at the time was in prison for the offence but the conviction was later quashed in the Court of Appeal.


== References ==

The 1974 All-Ireland Senior Club Hurling Championship final was a hurling match played at Croke Park on 17 March 1974 to determine the winners of the 1973–74 All-Ireland Senior Club Hurling Championship, the fourth season of the All-Ireland Senior Club Hurling Championship, a tournament organised by the Gaelic Athletic Association for the champion clubs of the four provinces of Ireland. The final was contested by Blackrock of Cork and Rathnure of Wexford, with the game ending in a 2–14 to 3–11 draw. The replay took place at Fraher Field on 28 April 1974. Blackrock won that game by 3–8 to 1–9.
The All-Ireland final was the second championship meeting between Blackrock and Rathnure. They had previously met in the All-Ireland final in 1972 when Blackrock were victorious. It remains their last championship meeting. Both sides were bidding to make history with Blackrock hoping to become the first team to win a second All-Ireland title while Rathnure were hoping to win their first.
The first half of the drawn game saw tit-for-tat scoring. Dan Quigley netted the first goal for Rathnure, however, Éamonn O'Donoghue secured Blackrock's first goal seconds later when he kicked the sliotar over the goal-line. Half-time saw the sides retire having scored 1-7 apiece. Donie Collins put Blackrock ahead early in the second half, however, Quigley soon scored his second to restore parity. A ten-minute period of dominance by Blackrock yielded only three points, while Quigley completed his hat-trick with a goal from a 21-yards free to give Rathnure a one-point lead. Pat Moylan secured the equalizer to send the game to a replay.
The replay produced a tension-charged climax as Blackrock turned almost certain defeat into victory. The first half saw a number of unsavory incidents, with John O'Halloran (Blackrock) and Mick Mooney (Rathnure) becoming the first players ever to be sent off in an All-Ireland club final. As the game entered stoppage time, Rathnure held a one-point lead. Blackrock's Donie Collins sent in a ground shot which goalkeeper Michael Foley let slip through his legs. Éamonn O'Donoghue secured the victory with a goal in the second minute of injury time.
Blackrock's victory secured their second All-Ireland title. They became the first club to win the All-Ireland title more than once. It was the third victory in succession for a club representing.


== Match details ==


=== Drawn match ===


=== Replay ===


== References ==

Adam Wishart (born 1969) is a documentary filmmaker. His professional background includes writing, directing, and appearing in various productions for BBC television projects.


== Professional background ==


=== Writing ===
Wishart's first book, Leaving Reality Behind, co-authored with historian Regula Bochsler was published in 2002, by Fourth Estate in the UK and HarperCollins in the United States. Leaving Reality Behind tells the history of what's become known as the Toywars – a battle between an online retailer and a group of European artists, which highlighted for the first time, the contradictions at the heart of the internet and ecommerce. The Financial Times said it was "an important story, as absorbing as a well crafted thriller". An extract from the book was published in The Guardian.
Wishart's second book, One in Three: A Son's Journey Into the History and Science of Cancer, was published in 2006 by Profile Books in the UK, by Grove Atlantic in America and translated and published into German, Finnish, Chinese, Icelandic and Japanese. The book told the story of David Wishart's battle against cancer. The story of David, the author's father, was interwoven with the history of cancer medicine over two millennia. The book was nominated for The Royal Society Book Award in 2007.
Simon Singh, in The Sunday Telegraph, said "Wishart succeeds brilliantly in constructing a narrative that is a tribute both to his father and the scientists who have partly unpacked the mystery of cancer." In a review for The Sunday Times, John Cornwell said that an "imaginative fusion of anecdotal detail, medical science and poignant, elegiac narrative marks every chapter of this unusual book".
Wishart appeared on Andrew Marr's Start the Week, on BBC Radio 4 to discuss the launch of One in Three.


=== Television ===
Wishart joined the BBC's Training Scheme in 1993, and went on to work as an assistant on Watchdog, Newsnight, Horizon, Tomorrow's World, Panorama, and Modern Times. As director, he made A Class Apart for the Back to the Floor series, which won the Royal Television Society Best Feature in 1997.
He directed one episode of the BAFTA-winning Blood on the Carpet series and was producer on the Trouble at the Big Top four-part series, following Peter Mandelson, as he pushed through the Millennium Dome project. 
In 2006, he wrote, directed, and presented Monkeys, Rats and Me: Animal Testing for BBC2, which followed the battle against the Oxford Animal Lab, and which went on to win the Grierson Award for Best Science Documentary in 2007.
In 2008, he directed Warlords Next Door? for Channel 4, about Somalian warlords who perpetrate human rights abuses from their suburban homes in England, which won the Best World Political Documentary at the Banff World Television Festival in 2009.
In 2009, Wishart wrote, directed, and featured in The Price of Life for BBC2, about the rationing of high cost cancer drugs by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, which was nominated for Best Science Documentary in the Grierson Awards of 2009.
In 2010, Wishart wrote, directed and featured in #23 Week Babies: The Price of Life, broadcast on BBC2 at 9pm on 9 March 2011. The documentary followed several babies born four months early – 23 weeks gestation – in the neonatal ward at the Birmingham Women's Hospital. The Independent newspaper's review summarised the dilemma presented by the film. 

Here's an unsettling Venn diagram. One circle encloses the set of fetuses that may, within the current law, be terminated. The other circle encloses the set of premature babies that, within current technology, can successfully be kept alive. And in the intersection – somewhere between week 23 and week 24 of a pregnancy – lie those babies that qualify both as abortable and savable – the subject of Adam Wishart's challenging film 23 Week Babies: the Price of Life.
The Telegraph review said that the film "took a taboo and broke it, gently, sensitively, but devastatingly".
The film attracted 1.903 million viewers for its terrestrial broadcast on BBC2, narrowly beating Jamie Oliver's Jamie's Dream School, which had 1.889 million viewers in the same time slot.
In 2021 he directed a documentary about the September 11 attacks called 9/11: Inside the President's War Room and released on the BBC and Apple TV+. The film won the Rose D'Or for Best European Documentary, Royal Television Society Award, Bulldog Award, Real Screen Award, Broadcast Magazine Award, it was runner up for the BAFTA. Danny Collins and Mark Hamill won the BAFTA for Best Editing. And Wishart himself won the Royal Television Society Award for Best Factual Directing. 


== Published works ==
Wishart, Adam; Regula Bochsler. Leaving Reality Behind, Ecco, 2002. ISBN 978-0-06-621076-6
Wishart, Adam. One in Three: A Son's Journey Into the History and Science of Cancer, Grove Press, 2006. ISBN 978-0-8021-4348-8


== References ==


== External links ==
Adam Wishart at IMDb
Official website

The 1939 Copa del Generalísimo was the 37th staging of the Copa del Rey, the Spanish football cup competition.
The competition started on 14 May 1939 and concluded on 25 June 1939 with the final, held at the Montjuïc Stadium in Barcelona.


== Round of 12 ==
Source: RSSSF
Racing Santander and Donostia received a bye.


== Quarter-finals ==
Sources: RSSSF; BDFutbol


== Semi-finals ==
Sources: RSSSF; BDFutbol


== Final ==

Sources: RSSSF; BDFutbol


== References ==


== External links ==
www.linguasport.com (in Spanish)
LFP website
RSSSF.org

Crataegus submollis, known as the northern downy hawthorn, northern red haw, Quebec hawthorn, or hairy cockspurthorn, is a species of hawthorn that grows to about 7 m in height and typically carries large crops of red fruit.
This species is closely related to C. mollis, but the two species have separate native ranges. Amongst other differences between these two species, C. mollis has approximately 20 stamens, whereas C. submollis has approximately 10 stamens per flower. Crataegus submollis is native to north-eastern North America, and has been introduced in Europe.
The thorns are usually numerous and up to 7 cm in length.


== Images ==


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Crataegus submollis at Wikimedia Commons

The College of Engineering Chengannur  commonly known as CEC, is an engineering institute in the state of Kerala, India, that was established by the Government of Kerala under the aegis of the  Institute of Human Resources Development (IHRD) in 1993. The college is located in Chengannur, Alappuzha. The college  is affiliated to the APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University and the courses are recognised by AICTE.


== Location ==
CEC is situated in the heart of Chengannur. 


== Overview ==
The college has been approved by the All India Council for Technical Education, New Delhi .  Being located in Chengannur town, Alleppey district, the college has access to transport, communication, and lodging facilities.  It was one of the five engineering colleges in Kerala selected by the government of India for the Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP). The college is listed as `CHN' in the allocation list of engineering seats maintained by the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations, Government of Kerala


== Courses ==
Two year postgraduate course in:

M.Tech Electronics Engineering (VLSI and Embedded Systems) - 24 seats (from academic year 2010-11)
M.Tech Computer Science (Digital Image Processing) - 24 seats
MCA Master of Computer Application(from academic year 2022) - 60 seats
Four-year B.Tech. degrees in:

Computer Science and Engineering - 180 seats (formerly, Computer Engineering)
Electronics and Communication Engineering - 120 seats (formerly, Electronics Engineering)
Electrical and Electronics Engineering - 60 seats (from academic year 2009-10)


== About ==
Admission to the courses is on an annual basis and is based on the All Kerala Common Entrance Examination conducted by the Controller of Entrance Examinations, Government of Kerala. The admissions to the free/merit seats and management seats are through the Central Allotment Process conducted by the Controller of Entrance Examinations, Government of Kerala. The proportion of seats are as follows: free/merit seats 50%, management seats 35% (as aforementioned allotment to both these categories are through the Central Allotment Process ), the remaining 15% seats come under the NRI quota.


=== Annual intake ===
CEC has an annual intake of 420 students (+10% lateral entry students) through government allotment, divided among the four branches as follows:

Computer Science and Engineering: 120 (+10% lateral entry students)
Electronics and Communication Engineering: 120(+10% lateral entry students)
Electrical and Electronics Engineering: 120 (+10% lateral entry students)
Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering: 60 (+10% lateral entry students)


=== CEC technical and non-technical events ===


==== SUMMIT ====
Summit is a biennial technical festival conducted by the college, to providing a platform for improving the technical and non-technical skills of the students. The Summit offers events including seminars and workshops.


== Technical organizations ==


=== IEEE Student Branch ===
An IEEE student branch was formed in CEC in mid-1997, with the goal of keeping the students in touch with technological advances. An IEEE library was inaugurated in December 1999. The library houses journals and magazines of IEEE. The IEEE student branch comes under the IEEE Kerala Section 
CEC's IEEE student members have presented projects at state and national level conferences and competitions. An IEEE Robotics Initiative Program has begun, with groups designing robots. IEEE-CEC is known for its consistent achievements since its inception in 1996. IEEE-CEC is also known for many firsts including being the first IEEE Student Branch in the world to win the IEEE WIE SB Affinity Group of the year award in 2005.
SURGE CEC


=== PRODDEC (Product Design and Development Center) ===


=== FOCES (Forum of Computer Engineering Students) ===
FOCES is an organization of CSE students of the college. The forum aims at improving the technical and industrial knowledge of the students. It organizes talks by personalities in the industry on evolving technologies in computing, workshops on developing platforms, languages and software packages in the IT industry..


=== ExESS (Electronics Engineering Students Society) ===
The activities of ExESS have helped students in attending state and national level contests. Apart from conducting technical learning sessions for Component familiarisations and Electronic Design Automation (EDA) tools, ExESS also does hands-on training sessions for soldering and PCB fabrication.


=== FLOSS (Free/Libre/Open-Source Software) Cell ===
The FLOSS cell has been organized to explain Open Source and Linux. The cell conducts Linux familiarisation classes, installation sessions and other activities. FLOSS Cell helps install and maintain systems and LAN in the nearby government school.


=== Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Cell [IEDC] ===
The Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Cell [IEDC] Bootcamp College of Engineering Chengannur came into existence in June 2015.They aim at promoting entrepreneurial spirit among students.IEDC seeks to inculcate the entrepreneurial culture among the students which would, in turn, inspire them to go a step further and take up the challenge of entrepreneurship.


== Non-technical organizations ==


=== National Service Scheme ===

NSS CEC now consists of 3 units with a maximum volunteer strength of 300, in which each student embraces the idea of everyone belonging to the same family.
Each year volunteers take part in 'Punarjani', the event where they aid community service centers such as hospitals in repairing damaged machinery and extend their assistance in whatever ways possible. The social commitments of our volunteers are evident from the Friday food serving programme at District hospital Chengannur to provide food for those in need. As directed by the Cell the three units conduct campus programmes exploring the talents in youth, awareness sessions brushing up their knowledge and community programmes that improvise their social skills. The units also extend their aid in helping with the internal duties of the college such as active participation during admission procedures and campus cleaning programmes. Our vivid spirit is not only seen in such commitments. The college hosts a plethora of talents whose skills are displayed in a variety of cultural events such as flash mobs, street plays on relevant topics, etc. We successfully hosted the second edition of UYILO, a techno-cultural fest with astounding feedback and plans to conduct further editions of the same in the years to come. The units have shown their active participation in almost every aspect pertaining to social and cultural welfare, and as the years progress it sets on reaching more milestones and prove to be an exemplary model for both its own volunteers and those outside.


=== Santhwanam ===
Integrated with the NSS unit, it undertakes campus cleaning drives, sending volunteers to the Pulse-Polio Immunization programs of the Government of India, and organizes orphanage visits.


=== Nature Club ===
CEC has joined hands with the "Save the Earth" global movement through the `Aranyam' forestry club. Group discussions, awareness camps and visits to nearby sanctuaries are some of the activities.


=== Arts Club ===
ACE (Arts Club for Engineers) provides a platform for students to develop their creative skills. It runs the Music club, Quiz and Debate club, and Audio Visual club. The Arts Club organizes "Utsav", the college arts festival.


=== The Students' Executive Senate (CEC Senate) ===
The Students Executive Senate, simply known as 'CEC Senate', is the supreme student body. The members of the senate are elected by and from the students, with two representatives from each class. The objectives of the senate are: to train the students of the college in their duties, responsibilities, and rights, to organize debates, seminars, group discussions, work squads, and tours, and to encourage sports, arts and other cultural, social or recreational activities.


== Training Placement Cell ==
The Training and Placement Cell (TPC) is a blend of faculty and students. With a group of students led by a Placement officer (Dr Raju M), the TPC helps the CECians choose their goal, prepare for it and find placements in work. The TPC of Chengannur Engineering College was the first of its kind, among the college placement units in the state, to introduce an 'Industry like' screening system for the selection of TPC student members.


== Entrepreneurship ==
Present as well as former students of College of Engineering Chengannur, have shown excellent entrepreneurship capabilities. Over 30+  Companies (Registered) have been initiated from this institute.
Some of the noteworthy companies from College of Engineering Chengannur are : 

ExTravelMoney Technosol  - Online Forex Services Product
Profoundis Labs - Known for developing the B2B sales intelligence tool Vibe (Acquired by FullContact)
Entri.me - Educational Tech Product Startup
Praudyogiki Technolabs LLP - IT Solutions


== Notable alumni ==
Anagha, Indian film industry
Rahul Ramesh, Founder & CTPO at Entri.app


== See also ==
List of Engineering Colleges in Kerala
KEAM


== References ==

In the modern pagan movement of Heathenry there are a number of holidays celebrated by different groups and individuals. The most widely observed are based on ancient Germanic practices described in historical accounts or folk practices; however, some adherents also incorporate innovations from the 20th and 21st centuries.


== Pre-Christian Germanic holidays and their modern observance ==

Prior to Christianisation and the introduction of the Julian calendar, the Germanic peoples used a lunisolar calendar that was used to coordinate heathen seasonal festivals and holy periods. These included the Álfablót, Dísablót, Veturnáttablót and Blōtmōnaþ at the beginning of winter, Yule and Mōdraniht around Midwinter, and Hrēþmōnaþ and Sigrblót in the summer half of the year.
Beyond these, Adam of Bremen's account of the Temple at Uppsala describes a great festival that was held every nine years, however it has been argued that this would have been using inclusive counting and would thus have occurred every eight years by modern counting conventions.
Modern Heathens can celebrate a number of these festivals, with Winter Nights, Yule and Sigrblót being among the most widely observed, however the date is typically adjusted so that it falls on a weekend.


== Modern development ==
The modern Icelandic festival of Þorrablót is sometimes considered a "pagan holiday" due to folk etymology with the name of the god Thor. The name, while historically attested, is derived from Þorri which is not explicitly linked to Thor, instead being the name of a month in the historic Icelandic calendar and a legendary Finnish king. Despite this, toasts to Thor are commonly included in the modern celebration.
Beyond the information about historical practice given in Early Medieval sources, some Heathens use modern festival calendars that incorporate material from other new religious movements such as the "Wheel of the Year" popular in Wicca. This practice may be criticised by other Heathens, however, due to its origin in the 20th century and its lack of connection to historical celebrations.
In addition to this, several groups in the USA have designated holidays through ad hoc innovation, such as the various "Days of Remembrance" introduced by The Troth or "Vali's Day", derived from Valentine's Day by a folk etymology connection with the deity Váli.
Suggestions for rituals suited for these various holidays were published by Edred Thorsson, A Book of Troth (1989) and by Kveldulf Gundarsson, Teutonic Religion (1993).
James Chisholm (1989) published a suggestion for Ostara. Chisholm argued for the reconstruction of the "sacred dramas" which he saw reflected in some Eddaic poems, although shorn of their sexual content by the Christian redactors. The revived ritual was again to be modified to suit "contemporary American sensibilities".


== Specific modern calendars ==


=== Samfundet Forn Sed Sverige (Sweden) ===
Samfundet Forn Sed Sverige has a list of annual holidays held during specific periods of the year.


=== The Troth (USA) ===
The handbook Our Troth: Heathen Life published by American-based inclusive Heathen organization The Troth in 2020, lists three holidays that most Heathens agree on, Yule (Winter Solstice or the first full moon after Winter Solstice), Winter Nights/Alfarblot/Disablot (begins on the second full moon after Autumnal Equinox and ends at new moon) and Summer Nights/Sigrblot (begins on the first full moon after Spring Equinox and ends at new moon).
Other holidays listed by the Troth include Disting (Second Full Moon of the New year), Lenzen (Full Moon Cycle around Vernal Equinox),  Ostara (First Full Moon After Vernal Equinox), May Day (May 1),  Midsummer/Litha (Summer Solstice), Lammas (Full moon after autumnal equinox) and Sunwait (starts 6 weeks before Winter Solstice).


=== Ingwine Heathenship (USA/UK) ===
The movement Ingwina Hæðenscipe, which seeks to reconstruct West Germanic Heathen beliefs, also has a list of annual holidays held during specific periods of the year. The group provides both reconstructed, and entirely modern dates for these festivals for the benefit of modern practitioners.


== See also ==
Thing (assembly)
Slavic Native Faith's calendars and holidays


== References ==


=== Works cited ===
Blain, Jenny; Wallis, Robert J. (2009). "Heathenry". In Lewis, James R.; Pizza, Murphy (eds.). Handbook of Contemporary Paganisms. Leiden: Brill. pp. 413–432. ISBN 978-90-04-16373-7.
Davy, Barbara Jane (2007). Introduction to Pagan Studies. Lanham: Altamira. ISBN 978-0-7591-0819-6.
Harvey, Graham (2007). Listening People, Speaking Earth: Contemporary Paganism (second ed.). London: Hurst & Company. ISBN 978-1-85065-272-4.
Hunt-Anschutz, Arlea (2002). "Heathenry". In Rabinovitch, S.; Lewis, J. (eds.). The Encyclopedia of Modern Witchcraft and Neo-Paganism. New York: Citadel Press. pp. 126–127. ISBN 978-0-8065-2406-1.

John Forsyth Wright (29 June 1892 – 16 January 1947) was an Australian politician. Born at Castra, Tasmania, he was the elder brother of Roy Douglas Wright and Senator Reginald Wright, both of whom were knighted. He was elected to the Tasmanian House of Assembly as a Nationalist member for Darwin in 1940, in a recount following the resignation of Frank Edwards. Defeated in 1941, he died in 1947 at Ulverstone.


== References ==